" Tell me what time is , " said Harrigan one late summer afternoon in a Madison Street bar .
" I 'd like to know . "
" A dimension , " I answered .
" Everybody knows that . "
" All right , granted .
I know space is a dimension and you can move forward or back in space .
And , of course , you keep on aging all the time . "
" Elementary , " I said .
" But what happens if you can move backward or forward in time ?
Do you age or get younger , or do you keep the status quo ? "
" I 'm not an authority on time , Tex .
Do you know anyone who traveled in time ? "
Harrigan shrugged aside my question .
" That was the thing I could n't get out of Vanderkamp , either .
He presumed to know everything else . "
" Vanderkamp ? "
" He was another of those strange people a reporter always runs into .
Lived in New York - downtown , near the Bowery .
Man of about forty , I 'd say , but a little on the old - fashioned side .
Dutch background , and hipped on the subject of New Amsterdam , which , in case you do n't know , was the original name of New York City . "
" Do n't mind my interrupting , " I cut in .
" But I 'm not quite straight on what Vanderkamp has to do with time as dimension . "
" Oh , he was touched on the subject .
He claimed to travel in it .
The fact is , he invented a time - traveling machine . "
" You certainly meet the whacks , Tex ! "
" Do n't I ! "
He grinned appreciatively and leaned reminiscently over the bar .
" But Vanderkamp had the wildest dreams of the lot .
And in the end he managed the neatest conjuring trick of them all .
I was on the Brooklyn Enterprise at that time ; I spent about a year there .
Special features , though I was on a reporter 's salary .
Vanderkamp was something of a local celebrity in a minor way ; he wrote articles on the early Dutch in New York , the nomenclature of the Dutch , the history of Dutch place - names , and the like .
He was handy with a pen , and even handier with tools .
He was an amateur electrician , carpenter , house - painter , and claimed to be an expert in genealogy . "
" And he built a time - traveling machine ? "
" So he said .
He gave me a rather hard time of it .
He was a glib talker and half the time I did n't know whether I was coming or going .
He kept me on my toes by taking for granted that I accepted his basic premises .
I got next to him on a tip .
He could be close - mouthed as a clam , but his sister let things slip from time to time , and on this occasion she passed the word to one of her friends in a grocery store that her brother had invented a machine that took him off on trips into the past .
It seemed like routine whack stuff , but Blake , who decided what went into the Enterprise and what did n't , sent me over to Manhattan to get something for the paper , on the theory that since Vanderkamp was well - known in Brooklyn , it was good neighborhood copy .
" Vanderkamp was a sharp - eyed little fellow , about five feet or so in height , and I hit him at a good time .
His sister said he had just come back from a trip - she left me to draw my own conclusions about what kind of trip - and I found him in a mild fit of temper .
He was too upset , in fact , to be truculent , which was more like his nature .
" Was it true , I wanted to know , that he 'd invented a machine that traveled in time ?
" He did n't make any bones about it .
' Certainly , ' he said .
' I 've been using it for the last month , and if my sister had n't decided to blab nobody would know about it yet .
What about it ? '
" ' You believe it can take you backwards or forwards into the past or the future ? '
" ' Do I look crazy ?
I said so , did n't I ? '
" Now , as a matter of fact , he did look crazy .
Unlike most of the candidates for my file of queer people , Vanderkamp actually looked like a nut .
He had a wild eye and a constantly working mouth ; he blinked a good deal and stammered when he was excited .
In features he was as Dutch as his name implied .
Well , we talked back and forth for some time , but I stuck with him and in the end he took me out into a shed adjoining his house and showed me the contraption he 'd built .
" It looked like a top .
The first thing I thought of was Brick Bradford , and before I could catch myself , I 'd asked , ' Is that pure Brick Bradford ? '
" He did n't turn a hair .
' Not by a long shot , ' he answered .
' H.
G. Wells was there first .
I owe it to Wells . '
" ' I see , ' I said .
" ' The hell you do ! '
he shot back .
' You think I 'm as nutty as a fruit - cake . '
" ' The idea of time travel is a little hard to swallow , ' I said .
" ' Sure it is .
But me , I 'm doing it .
So that 's all there is to it . '
" ' If you do n't mind , Mr. Vanderkamp , ' I said , ' I 'm a dummy in scientific matters .
I have all I can do to tell a nut from a bolt . '
" ' That I believe , ' he said .
" ' So how do you time travel ? '
" ' Look , ' he said , ' time is a dimension like space .
You can go up or down this ruler , ' he snatched a steel ruler and waved it in front of me , ' from any given point .
But you move .
In the dimension of time , you only seem to move .
You stand still ; time moves .
Do you get it ? '
" I had to confess that I did n't .
" He tried again , with obviously strained patience .
Judging by what I could gather from what he said , it was possible for him - so he believed - to get into his machine , twirl a few knobs , push a few buttons , relax for any given period , and end up just where he liked - back in the past , or ahead in the future .
But wherever he ended up , he was still in this same spot .
In other words , whether he was back in 1492 or ahead in 2092 , the place he got out of his time machine was still his present address .
" It was beyond me , frankly , but I figured that as long as he was a little touched , it would n't do any harm to humor him .
I intimated that I understood and asked him where he 'd been last .
" His face fell , his brow clouded , and he said , ' I 've been ahead thirty years . '
He shook his head angrily .
' What a time !
I 'll be seventy , and you wo n't even be that , Mr. Harrigan .
But we 'll be in the middle of the worst atomic war you ever dreamed about . '
" Now this was before Hiroshima , quite a bit .
I did n't know what he was talking about , but it gives me a queer feeling now and then when I think of what he said , especially since it 's still short of thirty years since that time .
" ' It 's no time to be living here , ' he went on .
' Direct hits on the entire area .
What would you do ? '
" ' I 'd get out , ' I said .
" ' That 's what I thought , ' he said .
' But that kind of warfare carries a long way .
A long way .
And I 'm a man who loves his comforts , reasonably .
I do n't intend to set up housekeeping in equatorial Africa or the forests of Brazil . '
" ' What did you see thirty years from now , Mr.
Vanderkamp ? '
I asked him .
" ' Everything blown to hell , ' he answered .
' Not a building in all Manhattan . '
He leered and added , ' And everybody who 'll be living here at that time will be scattered into the atmosphere in fragments no bigger than an amoeba . '
" ' You fill me with anticipation , ' I said .
" So I went back to my desk and wrote the story .
You could guess what kind it had to be .
' Time Travel Is Possible , Says Amateur Scientist ! '
- that kind of thing .
You can see it every week , in large doses , in the feature sections of some of the biggest chain papers .
It went over like an average feature about life on the moon or prehistoric animals surviving in remote mountain valleys , or what have you .
Just what Vanderkamp went back to after I left , I do n't know , but I have an idea that he gave his sister a devil of a time . "
Vanderkamp stalked into the house and confronted his sister .
" You see , Julie - a reporter .
Ca n't you learn to hold your tongue ? "
She threw him a scornful glance .
" What difference does it make ? "
she cried .
" You 're gone all the time . "
" Maybe I 'll take you along sometime .
Just wait . "
" Wait , wait !
That 's all I 've been doing .
Since I was ten years old I 've been waiting on you ! "
" Oh , the hell with it ! "
He turned on his heel and left the house .
She followed him to the door and shouted after him , " Where are you going now ? "
" To New Amsterdam for a little peace and quiet , " he said testily .
He threw open the thick - walled door of his time - machine and pulled it shut behind him .
He sat down before the controls and began to chart his course for 1650 .
If his calculations were correct , he would shortly find himself in the vicinity of that sturdy if autocratic first citizen of the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam , Peter Stuyvesant , as well as Governor Stuyvesant 's friend and neighbor , Heinrich Vanderkamp .
He gave not even a figurative glance over his shoulder before he started out .
When he emerged at last from his machine , he was in what appeared to be the backyard of a modest residence on a street which , though he did not know it , he suspected might be the Bouwerie .
At the moment of his emergence , a tall , angular woman stood viewing him , open - mouthed and aghast , from the wooden stoop at the back door of her home .
He looked at her in astonishment himself .
The resemblance to his sister Julie was uncanny .
With only the slightest hesitation , he addressed her in fluent Dutch .
" Pray do not be disturbed , young lady . "
" A fine way for a gentleman to call ! "
she exclaimed in a voice considerably more forceful than her appearance .
" I suppose my father sent you .
And where did you get that outlandish costume ? "
" I bought it , " he answered , truthfully enough .
" A likely tale , " she said .
" And if my father sent you , just go back and tell him I 'm satisfied the way I am .
No woman needs a man to manage her . "
" I do n't have the honor of your father 's acquaintance , " he answered .
She gazed at him suspiciously from narrowed eyes .
" Everyone in New Amsterdam knows Henrik Van Tromp .
He 's as unloved as yonder bumblebee .
Stand where you are and say whence you came . "
" I am a visitor in New Amsterdam , " he said , standing obediently still .
" I confess I do n't know my way about very well , and I chose to stop at this attractive home . "
" I know it 's attractive , " she said tartly .
" And it 's plain to see you 're a stranger here , or you 'd never be wearing such clothes .
Or is it the fashion where you come from ? "
She gave him no opportunity to answer , but added , after a moment of indecision , " Well , you look respectable enough , though much like my rascally cousin Pieter Vanderkamp .
Do you know him ? "
" No . "
" Well , no matter .
He 's much older than you - near forty blessed years .
You 're no more than twenty , I do n't doubt . "
Involuntarily Vanderkamp put his hand to his cheek , and smiled as he felt its smooth roundness .
" You may be right , at that , " he said cryptically .
" You might as well come in , " she said grudgingly .
" What with the traffic on the road outside , the Indians , and people who come in such flighty vehicles as yours , I might as well live in the heart of the colony . "
He looked around .
" And still , " he said , " it is a pleasant spot - peaceful , comfortable .
I 'm sure a man could live out his days here in contentment . "
" Oh , could he ? "
she said belligerently .
" And where would I be while this went on ? "
He gazed at her beetling nose , her jutting chin .
" A good question , " he muttered thoughtfully .
He followed her into the house .
It was a treasury of antiquities , filling him with delight .
Miss Anna Van Tromp offered him a cup of milk , which he accepted , thanking her profusely .
She talked volubly , eyeing him all the while with the utmost curiosity , and he gathered presently that her father had made several attempts to marry her off , disapproving of her solitary residence so far from the center of the city ; but she had frowned upon one and all of the suitors he had encouraged to call on her .
She was undeniably impressive , almost formidable , he conceded privately , with a touch of the shrew and harridan .
Life with Miss Anna Van Tromp would not be easy , he reflected .
But then , life with his sister Julie was not easy , either .
Miss Anna , however , had not to face atomic warfare ; all she had to look forward to in fourteen years was surrender to the besieging British , which she would have no trouble in surviving .
He settled down to his ingratiating best and succeeded in making a most favorable impression on Miss Anna Van Tromp before at last he took his leave , carrying with him a fine , hand - wrought bowl with which the lady had presented him .
He had a hunch he might come back .
Of all the times he had visited since finishing the machine , he knew that old New Amsterdam in the 1650s was the one period most likely to keep him contented - provided Miss Van Tromp did n't turn out to be a nuisance .
So he took careful note of the set of his controls , jotting them down so that he would not be likely to forget them .
It was late when he found himself back in his own time .
His sister was waiting up for him .
" Two o'clock in the morning ! "
she screamed at him .
" What are you doing to me ?
Oh , God , why did n't I marry when I had the chance , instead of throwing away my life on a worthless brother ! "
" Why do n't you ?
It 's not too late , " he sighed wearily .
" How can you say that ? "
she snapped bitterly .
" Here I am thirty nearly , and worn out from working for you .
Who would marry me now ?
Oh , if only I could have another chance !
If I could be young again , and do it all over , I 'd know how to have a better life ! "
In spite of his boredom with her , Vanderkamp felt the effect of this cry from a lonely heart .
He looked at her pityingly ; it was true , after all , that she had worked faithfully for him , without pay , since their parents died .
" Take a look at this , " he said gently , offering her the bowl .
" Hah !
Can we eat bowls ? "
He raised his eyes heavenward and went wearily to bed .
" I saw Vanderkamp again about a fortnight later , " Harrigan went on .
" Ran into him in a tavern on the Bowery .
He recognized me and came over .
" ' That was some story you did , ' he said .
" ' Been bothered by cranks ? '
I asked .
" ' Hell , yes !
Not too badly , though .
They want to ride off somewhere just to get away .
I get that feeling myself sometimes .
But , tell me , have you seen the morning papers ? '
" Now , by coincidence , the papers that morning had carried a story from some local nuclear physicist about the increasing probability that the atom would be smashed .
I told him I 'd seen it .
" ' What did I tell you ? '
he said .
" I just smiled and asked where he 'd been lately .
He did n't hesitate to talk , perhaps because his sister had been giving him a hard time with her nagging .
So I listened .
It appeared , to hear him tell it , that he had been off visiting the Dutch in New Amsterdam .
You could almost believe what he said , listening to him , except for that wild look he had .
Anyway , he 'd been in New Amsterdam about 1650 , and he 'd brought back a few trifling souvenirs of the trips .
Would I like to see them ?
I said I would .
" I figured he 'd got his hands on some nice antiques and wanted an appreciative audience .
His sister was n't home ; so he took me around and showed me his pieces , one by one - a bowl , a pair of wooden candlesticks , wooden shoes , and more , all in all a fine collection .
He even had a chair that looked pretty authentic , and I wondered where he 'd dug up so many nice things of the New Amsterdam period - though , of course , I had to take his word as to where they belonged historically ; I did n't know .
But I imagine he got them somewhere in the city or perhaps up in the Catskill country .
" Well , after a while I got another look at his contraption .
It did n't appear to have been moved at all ; it was still sitting where it had been before , without a sign to say that it had been used to go anywhere , least of all into past time .
" ' Tell me , ' I said to him at last , ' when you go back in time do you get younger ? '
" ' Yes and no , ' he said .
' Obviously . '
" It was n't obvious to me , but I could n't get any more than that out of him .
The thing I could n't figure out was the reason for his claim .
He was n't trying to sell anything to anybody , as far as I could see ; he was n't anxious to tell the world about his time - machine , either .
He did n't mind talking in his oblique fashion about his trips .
He did talk about New Amsterdam as if he had a pretty good acquaintance with the place .
But then , he was known as a minor authority on the customs of the Dutch colony .
" He was touched , obviously .
Just the same , he challenged me , in a way .
I wanted to know something more about him , how his machine worked , how he took off , and so on .
I made up my mind the next time I was in the neighborhood to look him up , hoping he would n't be home .
" When I made it , his sister was alone , and in fine fettle , as cantankerous as a flea - bitten mastiff .
" ' He 's gone again , ' she complained bitterly .
" Clearly the two of them were at odds .
I asked her whether she had seen him go .
She had n't ; he had just marched out to his shop and that was an end to him as far as she was concerned .
" I haggled around quite a lot and finally got her permission to go out and see what I could see for myself .
Of course , the shop was locked .
I had counted on that and had brought along a handy little skeleton key .
I was inside in no time .
The machine was n't there .
Not a sign of it , or of Vanderkamp either .
" Now , I looked around all over , but I could n't for the life of me figure out how he could have taken it out of that place ; it was too big for doors or windows , and the walls and roof were solid and immovable .
I figured that he could n't have got such a large machine away without his sister 's seeing him ; so I locked the place up and went back to the house .
" But she was immovable ; she had n't seen a thing .
If he had taken anything larger than pocket - size out of that shop of his , she had missed it .
I could hardly doubt her sincerity .
There was nothing to be had from that source ; so I had no alternative but to wait for him another time . "
Anna Van Tromp , considerably chastened , watched her strange suitor - she looked upon all men as suitors , without exception ; for so her father had conditioned her to do - as he reached into his sack and brought out another wonder .
" Now this , " said Vanderkamp , " is an alarm clock .
You wind it up like this , you see ; set it , and off it goes .
Listen to it ring !
That will wake you up in the morning . "
" More magic , " she cried doubtfully .
" No , no , " he explained patiently .
" It is an everyday thing in my country .
Perhaps some day you would like to join me in a little visit there , Anna ? "
" Ja , maybe , " she agreed , looking out the window to his weird and frightening carriage , which had no animal to draw it and which vanished so strangely , fading away into the air , whenever Vanderkamp went into it .
" This clothes - washing machine you talk about , " she admitted .
" This I would like to see . "
" I must go now , " said Vanderkamp , gazing at her with well - simulated coyness .
" I 'll leave these things here with you , and I 'll just take along that bench over there . "
" Ja , ja , " said Anna , blushing .
" Six of one and half a dozen of the other , " muttered Vanderkamp , comparing Anna with his sister .
He got into his time - machine and set out for home in the twentieth century .
There was some reluctance in his going .
Here all was somnolent peace and quiet , despite the rigors of living ; in his own time there were wars and turmoil and the ultimate threat of the greatest war of all .
New Amsterdam had one drawback , however - the presence of Anna Von Tromp .
She had grown fond of him , undeniably , perhaps because he was so much more interested in her circumstances than in herself .
What was a man to do ?
Julie at one end , Anna at the other .
But even getting rid of Julie would not allow him to escape the warfare to come .
He thought deeply of his problem all the way home .
When he got back , he found his sister waiting up , as usual , ready to deliver the customary diatribe .
He forestalled her .
" I 've been thinking things over , Julie .
I believe you 'd be much happier if you were living with brother Carl .
I 'll give you as much money as you need , and you can pack your things and I 'll take you down to Louisiana . "
" Take me ! "
she exclaimed .
" How ?
In that crazy contraption of yours ? "
" Precisely . "
" Oh no ! "
she said .
" You do n't get me into that machine !
How do I know what it will do to me ?
It 's a time machine , is n't it ?
It might make an old hag of me - or a baby ! "
" You said that you wanted to be young again , did n't you ? "
he said softly .
" You said you 'd like another chance .... " A faraway look came into her eyes .
" Oh , if I only could !
If I only could be a girl again , with a chance to get married .... " " Pack your things , " Vanderkamp said quietly .
" It must have been all of a month before I saw Vanderkamp again , " Harrigan continued , waving for another scotch and soda .
" I was down in the vicinity on an assignment and I took a run over to his place .
" He was home this time .
He came to the door , which he had chained on the inside .
He recognized me , and it was plain at the same time that he had no intention of letting me in .
" I came right out with the first question I had in mind .
' The thing that bothers me , ' I said to him , ' is how you get that time machine of yours in and out of that shed . '
" ' Mr.
Harrigan , ' he answered , ' newspaper reporters ought to have at least elementary scientific knowledge .
You do n't .
How in hell could even a time machine be in two places at once , I ask you ?
If I take that machine back three centuries , that 's where it is - not here .
And three centuries ago that shop was n't standing there .
So you do n't go in or out ; you do n't move at all , remember ?
It 's time that moves . '
" ' I called the other day , ' I went on .
' Your sister spoke to me .
Give her my regards . '
" ' My sister 's left me , ' he said shortly , ' to stew , as you might say , in my own time machine . '
" ' Really ? '
I said .
' Just what do you have in mind to do next ? '
" ' Let me ask you something , Mr. Harrigan , ' he answered .
' Would you sit around here waiting for an atomic war if you could get away ? '
" ' Certainly not , ' I answered .
" ' Well , then , I do n't intend to , either . '
" All this while he was standing at the door , refusing to open it any wider or to let me in .
He was making it pretty plain that there was n't much he had to say to me .
And he seemed to be in a hurry .
" ' Remember me to the inquiring public thirty years hence , Mr. Harrigan , ' he said at last , and closed the door .
" That was the last I saw of him . "
Harrigan finished his scotch and soda appreciatively and looked around for the bartender .
" Did he take off then ? "
I asked .
" Like a rocket , " said Harrigan .
" Queerest thing was that there was n't a trace of him .
The machine was gone , too - the same way as the last time , without a disturbance in the shop .
He and his machine had simply vanished off the face of the earth and were never heard from again .
" Matter of fact , though , " Harrigan went on thoughtfully , " Vanderkamp 's disappearance was n't the really queer angle on the pitch .
The other thing broke in the papers the week after he left .
The neighbors got pretty worked up about it .
They called the police to tell them that Vanderkamp 's sister Julie was back , only she was off her nut - and a good deal changed in appearance , too .
" Gal going blarmy was no news , of course , but that last bit about her appearance - they said she looked about twenty years older , all of a sudden - sort of rang a bell .
So I went over there .
It was Julie , all right ; at least , she looked a hell of a lot like Julie had when I last saw her - provided you could grant that a woman could age twenty years in the few weeks it had been .
And she was off her rocker , sure enough - or hysterical .
Or at least madder than a wet hen .
She made out like she could n't speak a word of English , and they finally had to get an interpreter to understand her .
She would n't speak anything but Dutch - and an old - fashioned kind , too .
" She made a lot of extravagant claims and kept insisting that she would bring the whole matter up in a complaint before Governor Stuyvesant .
Said she was n't Julie Vanderkamp , by God , but was named Anna Van Tromp - which is an old Dutch name thereabouts - and claimed that she had been abducted from her home on the Bowery .
We pointed out the Third Avenue El and told her that was the Bowery , but she just sniffed and looked at us as though we were crazy . "
I toyed with my drink .
" You mean you actually listened to the poor girl 's story ? "
I asked .
" Sure , " Harrigan said .
" Maybe she was as crazy as a bedbug , but I 've listened to whackier stories from supposedly sane people .
Sure , I listened to her . "
He paused thoughtfully for a moment , then went on .
" She claimed that this fellow Vanderkamp had come to her house and filled her with a lot of guff about the wonderful country he lived in , and how she ought to let him take her to see it .
Apparently he waxed especially eloquent about an automatic washing - machine and dryer , and that had fascinated her , for some reason .
Then , she said , he 'd brought a ten - year - old girl along - though where in the world old Vanderkamp could have picked up a tot like that is beyond me - and the kid had added her blandishments to the plot .
Between them , they had managed to lure her into the old guy 's machine .
From what she said , it was obviously the time machine she was talking about , and if she was Julie there was no reason why she should n't know about it .
But she talked as though it was a complete mystery to her , as though she 'd no idea what the purpose of it was .
Well , anyway , here she was - and very unhappy , too .
Wanted to go back to old New Amsterdam , but bad .
" It was a beautiful act , even if she was nuts .
The strange thing was , though , that there were some things even a gal going whacky could n't explain .
For instance , the house was filled with what the experts said were priceless antiques from Dutch New Amsterdam , of the period just prior to the British siege .
You 'd think those things would make poor Julie feel more at home , seeing as she claimed to belong in that period , but apparently they just made her homesick .
And , curiously enough , all the modern gadgets were gone .
All those handy little items that make the twentieth century so livable had been taken away - including the washing - machine and dryer , by the way .
Julie - or Anna , as she called herself - claimed that Vanderkamp had taken it back with him , wherever he 'd gone to , after he 'd brought her there . "
" Poor woman , " I said sympathetically .
" They toted her off to the booby hatch , I suppose . "
" No .... " Harrigan said slowly .
" They did n't , as a matter of fact .
Since she was harmless , they let her stay in the house a while .
Which was a mistake , it seems .
Of course , she was n't from the seventeenth century .
That 's impossible .
All the same - . "
He broke off abruptly and stared moodily into his glass .
" What happened to her ? "
I asked .
" She was found one morning about two weeks after she got there , " he said .
" Dead .
Electrocuted .
It seems she 'd stuck her finger into a light socket while standing in a bathtub full of water .
An accident , obviously .
As the Medical Examiner said , it was an accident any six - year - old child would have known enough about electricity to avoid .
" That is , " Harrigan added , " a twentieth - century child .... "
Successful colonies among the stars require interstellar ships - but they require , also , a very special kind of man .
A kind you might not think to look for ....
Walking home in the dark from an evening spent in mischief , a young man spied coming toward him down the road a person with a lamp .
When the wayfarers drew abreast , the play - boy saw that the other traveler was the Blind Man from his village .
" Blind Man , " the youngster shouted across the road , " what a fool you be !
Why , old No - Eyes , do you bear a lantern , you whose midnight is no darker than his noonday ? "
The Blind Man lifted his lamp .
" It is not as a light for myself that I carry this , Boy , " he said , " it is to warn off you fools with eyes . "
- Hausa proverb The Captain shook hands with the black - hatted Amishman while the woman stood aside , not concerning herself with men 's business .
" It 's been a pleasure to have you and Fraa Stoltzfoos aboard , Aaron , " the Captain said .
" Ship 's stores are yours , my friend ; if there 's anything you need , take it and welcome .
You 're a long way from the corner grocery . "
" My Martha and I have all that 's needful , " Aaron Stoltzfoos said .
" We have our plow , our seed , our land .
Captain , please tell your men , who treated us strangers as honored guests , we thank them from our hearts .
We 'll not soon forget their kindness . "
" I 'll tell them , " the Captain promised .
Stoltzfoos hoisted himself to the wagon seat and reached a hand down to boost his wife up beside him .
Martha Stoltzfoos sat , blushing a bit for having displayed an accidental inch of black stocking before the ship 's officers .
She smoothed down her black skirts and apron , patted the candle - snuffer Kapp into place over her prayer - covering , and tucked the wool cape around her arms and shoulders .
The world outside , her husband said , was a cold one .
Now in the Stoltzfoos wagon was the final lot of homestead goods with which these two Amishers would battle the world of Murna .
There was the plow and bags of seed , two crates of nervous chickens ; a huge , round tabletop ; an alcohol - burning laboratory incubator , bottles of agar - powder , and a pressure cooker that could can vegetables as readily as it could autoclave culture - media .
There was a microscope designed to work by lamplight , as the worldly vanity of electric light would ill suit an Old Order bacteriologist like Martha Stoltzfoos .
Walled in by all this gear was another passenger due to debark on Murna , snuffling and grunting with impatience . "
Sei schtill , Wutzchen , " Stoltzfoos crooned .
" You 'll be in your home pen soon enough . "
The Captain raised his hand .
The Engineer punched a button to tongue the landing ramp out to Murnan earth .
Cold air rammed in from the outside winter .
The four horses stomped their hoofs on the floor - plates , their breath spikes of steam .
Wutzchen squealed dismay as the chill hit his nose .
" We 're reddi far geh , Captain , " Stoltzfoos said .
" My woman and I invite you and your men to feast at our table when you 're back in these parts , five years hence .
We 'll stuff you fat as sausages with onion soup and Pannhaas , Knepp and Ebbelkuche , shoo - fly pie and scharifer cider , if the folk here grow apples fit for squeezing . "
" You 'll have to set up planks outdoors to feed the lot I 'll be bringing , Aaron , " the Captain said .
" Come five - years ' springtime , when I bring your Amish neighbors out , I 'll not forget to have in my pockets a toot of candy for the little Stoltzes I 'll expect to see underfoot . "
Martha , whose English was rusty , blushed none the less .
Aaron grinned as he slapped the reins over the rumps of his team .
" Giddap ! "
The cart rumbled across the deck and down the ramp , onto the soil of Murna .
Yonnie , the Ayrshire bull , tossed his head and sat as the rope tightened on his noseband .
He skidded stubbornly down the ramp till he felt cold earth against his rear .
Accepting fate , Yonnie scrambled up and plodded after the wagon .
As the Stoltzfooses and the last of their off - worldly goods topped a hillock , they both turned to wave at the ship 's officers .
Then , veiled by the dusty fall of snow , they disappeared .
" I do n't envy them , " the Engineer said , staring out into the wintery world .
" Hymie , were you born in a barn ? "
the Exec bellowed .
" Sorry , sir . "
The Engineer raised the landing ramp .
Heaters hummed to thaw the hold 's air .
" I was thinking about how alone those two folks are now . "
" Hardly alone , " the Captain said .
" There are four million Murnans , friendly people who consider a white skin no more than a personal idiosyncrasy .
Aaron 's what his folks call a Chentelmaan , too .
He 'll get along . "
" Chentelmaan - schmentelmaan , " the Engineer said .
" Why 'd he come half across Creation to scratch out a living with a horse - drawn plow ? "
" He came out here for dirt , " the Captain said .
" Soil is more than seed - bed to the Amish .
It feeds the Old Order they 're born to .
Aaron and Martha Stoltzfoos would rather have built their barns beside the Susquehanna , but all the land there 's taken .
Aaron could have taken a job in Lancaster , too ; he could have shaved off his beard , bought a Chevie and moved to the suburbs , and settled down to read an English - language Bible in a steepled church .
Instead , he signed a homestead - contract for a hundred acres eighty light - years from home ; and set out to plow the land like his grandpop did .
He 'll sweat hard for his piece of Murna , but the Amish always pay well for their land . "
" And what do we , the government , I mean , get from the deal ? "
the Exec wanted to know .
" This wagon of ours does n't run on hay , like Aaron 's does . "
" Cultures skid backwards when they 're transplanted , " the Captain said .
" Murnan culture was lifted from Kano , a modern city by the standards of the time ; but , without tools and with a population too small to support technology , the West African apostates from Islam who landed here four hundred years ago slid back to the ways of their grandparents .
We want them to get up to date again .
We want Murna to become a market .
That 's Aaron 's job .
Our Amishman has got to start this planet back toward the machine age . "
" Seems an odd job to give a fellow who wo n't drive a car or read by electric light , " the Engineer observed .
" Not so odd , " the Captain said .
" The Amish pretty much invented American agriculture , you know .
They 've developed the finest low - energy farming there is .
Clover - growing , crop - rotation , using animal manures , those are their inventions .
Aaron , by his example , will teach the natives here Pennsylvania farming .
Before you can say Tom Malthus , there 'll be steel cities in this wilderness , filled with citizens eager to open charge accounts for low - gravs and stereo sets . "
" You expect our bearded friend to reap quite a harvest , Captain , " the Engineer said .
" I just hope the natives here let him plant the seed . "
" Did you get along with him , Hymie ? "
" Sure , " the Engineer said .
" Aaron even made our smiths , those human sharks bound for Qureysh , act friendly .
For all his strange ways , he 's a nice guy . "
" Nice guy , hell , " the Captain said .
" He 's a genius .
That seventeenth - century un - scientist has more feeling for folkways in his calloused left hand than you 'd find in all the Colonial Survey .
How do you suppose the Old Order maintains itself in Pennsylvania , a tiny Deitsch - speaking enclave surrounded by calico suburbs and ten - lane highways ?
They mind their business and leave the neighbors to theirs .
The Amish have never been missionaries - they learned in 1600 that missionaries are resented , and either slaughtered or absorbed . "
" Sometimes digestively , " the Engineer remarked .
" Since the Thirty Years ' War , back when ' Hamlet ' was opening in London , these people have been breeding a man who can fit one special niche in society .
The failures were killed in the early days , or later went gay and took the trappings of the majority .
The successes stayed on the farm , respected and left alone .
Aaron has flirted with our century ; he and his wife learned some very un - Amish skills at the Homestead School .
The skill that makes Aaron worth his fare out here , though , is an Amish skill , and the rarest one of all .
He knows the Right Way to Live , and lives it ; but he knows , too , that your Truth - of - the Universe is something different .
And right , for you .
He 's quite a man , our Aaron Stoltzfoos .
That 's why we dropped him here . "
" Better him than me , " the Engineer said .
" Precisely , " the Captain said .
He turned to the Exec .
" As soon as we 've lifted , ask Colonel Harris to call on me in my cabin , Gene .
Our Marines had better fresh - up their swordsmanship and cavalry tactics if they 're to help our Inad Tuaregs establish that foundry on Qureysh . "
" It sometimes seems you 're more Ship 's Anthropologist than Captain , " the Engineer remarked .
" I 'm an anthro - apologist , Hymie , like Mr. Kipling , " the Captain said . "
There are nine and sixty ways of constructing tribal lays .
And - every - single - one - of - them - is - right ! "
Bells rang , and the ship surged .
" Aaron and Martha , God keep you , " the Captain said .
" Whoa ! "
Aaron shouted .
He peered back toward the ship , floating up into grayness , the cavitation of her wake stirring the snow into patterns like fine - veined marble . "
Gott saygen eich , " he said , a prayer for his departing friends .
His wife shivered .
" It 's cold enough to freeze the horns off a mooley - cow , " she said .
She glanced about at the snow - drifted little trees and clutched her black cloak tighter .
" I 'm feared , Stoltz .
There 's naught about us now but snow and black heathen . "
" It 's fear that is the heathen , " Aaron said . "
By the word of the Lord were the heavens made ; and the host of them by the breath of His mouth . "
He kissed her .
" I welcome you to our new homeland , wife , " he said .
Behind them Wutzchen - " piglet " - grunted .
Martha smiled back at the giant porker , perched amongst the cases and bags and household goods like the victim of some bawdy chiavari .
" I 've never heard a pig mutter so , " she said .
" If he knew that his business here was to flatter the local lady - pigs with farrow , Wutzchen would hop out and run , " Aaron said . "
Dummel dich , Stoltz , " Martha said .
" I 've got to make your supper yet , and we do n't have so much as a stove lit in our tent . "
Stoltzfoos slapped the team back into motion .
" What we need for our journey home are a few of the altie lieder , " he said , reaching back in the wagon for his scarred guitar .
He strummed and hummed , then began singing in his clear baritone : " In da guut alt Suumer - zeit ... " ...
In da guut alt Suumer - zeit , " Martha 's voice joined him .
As they jolted along the path through the pine trees , heading toward Datura - village , near which their homestead stood , they sang the other homey songs to the music of the old guitar . "
Drawk Mich Zrick zu Alt Virginye , " nostalgic for the black - garbed Plain - Folk left at home .
Then Aaron 's fingers danced a livelier tune on the strings : " Ich fang ' n neie Fashun aw , " he crowed , and Martha joined in : " A new fashion I 'll begin , " they sang , " The hay I 'll cut in the winter ; " When the sun - heat beats , I 'll loaf in the shade .
" And feast on cherry - pie .
" I 'll get us a white , smearkase cow , " And a yard full of guinea - hen geese ; " A red - beet tree as high as the moon , " And a patent - leather fence .
" The chickens I 'll keep in the kitchen , " they sang ; whereupon Martha broke down laughing .
" It 's a new world , and for now a cold world ; but it 's God 's world , with home just up ahead , " Aaron shouted .
He pulled the wagon up next to the arctic tent that was to be their temporary farmhouse , beside the wagon loads of provision he 'd brought before .
He jumped down and swung Martha to earth .
" Light the stove , woman ; make your little kitchen bright , while I make our beasts feel welcome . "
The Amishwoman pushed aside the entrance flap of the tent .
Enclosed was a circle some twelve feet wide .
The floor was bare earth .
Once warmed by the pump - up " naptha " lantern and the gasoline hotplate , it would become a bog .
Martha went out to the wagon to get a hatchet and set out for the nearby spinny of pines to trim off some twigs .
Old Order manner forbid decorative floor - coverings as improper worldly show ; but a springy carpet of pine - twigs could be considered as no more than a wooden floor , keeping two Plain Folk from sinking to their knees in mud .
The pots were soon boiling atop the two - burner stove , steaming the tent 's air with onion - tangy tzvivvele Supp and the savory pork - smell of Schnitz un Knepp , a cannibal odor that disturbed not a bit Wutzchen , snoring behind the cookstove .
Chickens , penned beneath the bed , chuckled in their bedtime caucus .
The cow stood cheek - by - jowl with Yonnie , warming him with platonic graciousness as they shared the hay Aaron had spread before them .
Martha stirred her soup .
" When the bishop married me to you , " she told Aaron , " he said naught of my having to sleep with a pig . "
" Ah , but I thought you knew that to be the purpose of Christian marriage , woman , " Aaron said , standing close .
" It 's Wutz I mean , " she said .
" Truly , I mind not a bit living as in one of those automobile - wagons , since it 's with you , and only for a little while . "
" I 'll hire a crew of our neighbors to help with the barn tomorrow , " Aaron said .
" That done , you 'll have but one pig to sleep with . "
After grace , they sat on cases of tobacco to eat their meal from a table of feed sacks covered with oilcloth .
" The man in the ship 's little kitchen let me make and freeze pies , Stoltz , " Martha said .
" He said we 'd have a deepfreeze big as all outdoors , without electric , so use it .
Eat till it 's all , Maan ; there 's more back . "
Yonnie bumped against Aaron 's eating - elbow .
" No man and his wife have eaten in such a zoo since Noah and his wife left the ark , " Aaron said .
He cut a slice of Schnitz - pie and palmed it against the bull 's big snout to be snuffled up .
" He likes your cooking , " he said .
" So wash his face , " Martha told him .
Outside the tent there was a clatter of horse - iron on frozen ground .
" What the die - hinker is that ? "
Aaron demanded .
He stood and picked up the naphtha lantern .
Outside , Aaron saw a tall black stranger , astride a horse as pale as the little Murnan moons that lighted him . "
Rankeshi dade ! "
the visitor bellowed .
" May your life be a long one ! "
Aaron Stoltzfoos repeated in Hausa .
Observing that his caller was brandishing a clenched fist , the Amishman observed the same ambiguous courtesy .
" If you will enter , O Welcome Stranger , my house will be honored . "
[ Illustration ] " Mother bless thee , Bearded One , " the Murnan said .
He dismounted , tossing his reins to one of the four retainers who remained on horseback .
He entered the tent after Aaron ; and stared about him at the animals , letting his dark eyes flick across Martha 's unveiled face .
At the Amishman 's invitation , the visitor sat himself on a tobacco case , revealing as he crossed his legs elaborately embroidered trousers and boot tops worked with designs that would dazzle a Texan .
Martha bustled about hiding the remains of their meal .
The Murnan 's outer dress was a woolen riga , the neckless gown of his West - African forefathers , with a blanket draped about his shoulders , exactly as those ancestors had worn one in the season of the cold wind called harmattan .
Aaron introduced himself as Haruna , the Hausa version of his name ; and the guest made himself known as Sarki - Chief - of the village of Datura .
His given name was Kazunzumi .
Wutzchen snuffled in his sleep .
The Sarki glanced at the huge pig and smiled .
Aaron relaxed a bit .
The Islamic interdict on swine had been shed by the Murnans when they 'd become apostates , just as Colonial Survey had guessed .
Stoltzfoos ' Hausa , learned at the Homestead School at Georgetown University , proved adequate to its first challenge in the field , though he discovered , with every experimenter in a new language , that his most useful phrase was magana sanoo - sanoo : " please speak slowly . "
Aaron let the Chief commence the desultory conversation that would precede talk of consequence .
Martha , ignored by the men , sat on the edge of the bed , reading the big German - language Bible .
Aaron and Kazunzumi sang on in the heathen tongue about weather , beasts , and field - crops .
The Sarki leaned forward to examine Aaron 's beard and shaven upper lip , once ; and smiled .
The Murnan does not wear such .
He looked at Martha more casually now , seeing that the husband was not disgraced by his wife 's naked face ; and remarked on the whiteness of her skin in the same tones he 'd mentioned Wutzchen 's remarkable girth .
Aaron asked when the snows would cease , when the earth would thaw .
The Sarki told him , and said that the land here was as rich as manure .
Gradually the talk worked round to problems involving carpenters , nails , lumber , hinges - and money .
Aaron was pleased to discover that the natives thought nothing of digging a cellar and raising a barn in midwinter , and that workers could be easily hired .
Suddenly Sarki Kazunzumi stood and slapped his palms together .
The tent flap was shoved open .
Bowed servants , who 'd shivered outside for over an hour , placed their master 's presents on the sack table , on the twig floor , even beside Martha on the bed .
There were iron knives , a roast kid , a basket of peanuts , a sack of roasted coffee beans , a string of dried fruit , and a tiny earthware flask of perfume .
There was even a woolen riga for Aaron , black , suggesting that the Survey had said a bit to the natives about Amish custom ; and there were bolts of bright - patterned cloth too worldly for aught but quilts and infant - dresses , brightening Martha 's eyes .
Aaron stood to accept the guest gifts with elaborate thanks .
Sarki Kazunzumi as elaborately bemeaned his offerings .
" Musa the carpenter will appear on tomorrow 's tomorrow , " he said .
" You will , the Mother willing , visit me in Datura tomorrow .
We will together purchase lumber worthy of my friend - neighbor 's barn - making .
May the Mother give you strength to farm , Haruna !
May the Mother grant you the light of understanding ! "
" Sannu , sannu ! "
Stoltzfoos responded .
He stood at the door of his tent , holding his lantern high to watch the Sarki and his servants ride off into the darkness . "
Er iss en groesie Fisch , nee ? "
Martha asked .
" The biggest fish in these parts , " Aaron agreed .
" Did you understand our talk ? "
" The heathen speech is hard for me to learn , Stoltz , " Martha admitted , speaking in the dialect they 'd both been reared to .
" While you had only the alien speech to study , I spent my time learning to grow the buglets and tell the various sorts apart .
Besides , unser guutie Deitschie Schproech , asz unser Erlayser schwetzt , iss guut genunk fa mier . "
( Our honest German tongue , that our Saviour spoke , is good enough for me ) .
Aaron laughed .
" So altfashuned a Maedel I married , " he said .
" Woman , you must learn the Hausa , too .
We must be friends to these Schwotzers , as we were friends with the English - speakers back in the United Schtayts . "
He pushed aside the bolt of Murnan cloth to sit beside his wife , and leafed through the pages of their Familien - Bibel , pages lovingly worn by his father 's fingers , and his grandfather 's .
" Listen , " he commanded : " For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land , a land of brooks of water , of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills ; a land of wheat , and barley , and vines , and fig trees , and pomegranates ; a land of oil olive , and honey ; a land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness , thou shalt not lack any thing in it ; a land whose stones are iron , and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass .
When thou hast eaten and art full , then thou shalt bless the Lord they God for the good land which He hath given thee . "
Aaron closed the big book reverently .
" Awmen , " he said .
" Awmen , " the woman echoed .
" Aaron , with you beside me , I am not fretful . "
" And with the Lord above us , I fear not in a strange land , " Aaron said .
He bent to scrape a handful of earth from beneath Martha 's pine - twig carpet . "
Guuter Gruundt , " he said .
" This will grow tall corn .
Tobacco , too ; the folk here relish our leaf .
There will be deep grasses for the beasts when the snow melts .
We will prosper here , wife . "
The next morning was cold , but the snowfall had ceased for a spell .
The Stoltzfooses had risen well before the dawn ; Martha to feed herself , her husband , and the chickens ; Aaron to ready the horse and wagon for a trip into Datura .
He counted out the hoard of golden cowries he 'd been loaned as grubstake , did some arithmetic , and allowed his wife to pour him a second cup of coffee for the road .
" You may expect the Sarki 's wives to visit while I 'm gone , " he remarked .
" I 'd be scared half to death ! "
Martha Stoltzfoos said .
Her hands went to the back of her head , behind the lace prayer covering .
" My hair 's all strooby , this place is untidy as an auction yard ; besides , how can I talk with those dark and heathen women ?
Them all decked out in golden bangles and silken clothes , most likely , like the bad lady of Babylon ?
Aaron Stoltz , I would admire a pretty to ride into town with you . "
" Haggling for hired - help is man 's Bissiniss . "
he said .
" When Kazunzumi 's women come , feed them pie and peaches from the can .
You 'll find a way to talk , or women are not sisters .
I 'll be back home in time for evening chores . "
Bumping along the trail into Datura , Aaron Stoltzfoos studied the land .
A world that could allow so much well - drained black soil to go unfarmed was fortunate indeed , he mused .
He thought of his father 's farm , which would be his elder brother 's , squeezed between railroad tracks and a three - lane highway , pressed from the west by an Armstrong Cork plant , the very cornstalks humming in harmony with the electric lines strung across the fields .
This land was what the old folks had sought in America so long ago : a wilderness ripe for the plow .
The wagon rumbled along the hoof - pocked frozen clay .
Aaron analyzed the contours of the hills for watershed and signs of erosion .
He studied the patterns of the barren winter fields , fall - plowed and showing here and there the stubble of a crop he did n't recognize .
When the clouds scudded for a moment off the sun , he grinned up , and looked back blinded to the road .
Good tilth and friendship were promised here , gifts to balance loneliness .
Five years from spring , other Amish folk would come to homestead - what a barn - raising they 'd have !
For now , though , he and Martha , come from a society so close - knit that each had always known the yield - per - acre of their remotest cousin - german , were in a land as strange as the New York City Aaron , stopping in for a phone - call to the vet had once glimpsed on the screen of a gay - German neighbor 's stereo - set .
Datura looked to Aaron like a city from the Bible , giving it a certain vicarious familiarity .
The great wall was a block of sunbaked mud , fifty feet tall at the battlements , forty feet thick at its base ; with bright , meaningless flags spotted on either side of the entrance tower .
The cowhide - shielded gate was open .
Birds popped out of mud nests glued to the mud wall and chattered at Aaron .
Small boys wearing too little to be warm appeared at the opening like flies at a hog - slaughtering to add to the din , buzzing and hopping about and waving their arms as they called companions to view the black - bearded stranger .
Aaron whoaed his horse and took a handful of anenes , copper tenth - penny bits , to rattle between his hands . "
Zonang ! "
he shouted : " Come here !
Is there a boy amongst you brave enough to ride with an off - worlder to the Sarki 's house , pointing him the way ? "
One of the boys laughed at Aaron 's slow , careful Hausa .
" Let Black - Hat 's whiskers point him the way ! "
the boy yelled . "
Uwaka !
Ubaka ! "
Damning both parents of the rude one , another youngster trotted up to Aaron 's wagon and raised a skinny brown fist in greeting .
" Sir Off - Worlder , I who am named Waziri , Musa - the - Carpenter 's son , would be honored to direct you to the house of Sarki Kazunzumi . "
" The honor , young man , is mine , " Stoltzfoos assured the lad , raising his own fist gravely .
" My name is Haruna , son of Levi , " he said , reaching down to hoist the boy up beside him on the wagon 's seat .
" Your friends have ill manners . "
He giddapped the horse .
" Buzzard - heads ! "
Waziri shouted back at his whilom companions .
" Peace , Waziri ! "
Aaron protested .
" You 'll frighten my poor horse into conniptions .
Do you work for your father , the carpenter ? "
" To , honorable Haruna , " the boy said .
" Yes . "
The empty wagon thumped over the wheel - cut streets like a wooden drum .
" By the Mother , sir , I have great knowledge of planing and joining ; of all the various sorts of wood , and the curing of them ; all the tools my father uses are as familiar to me as my own left hand . "
" Carpentry is a skillful trade , " Aaron said .
" Myself , I am but a farmer . "
" By Mother 's light !
So am I ! "
Waziri said , dazzled by this coincidence .
" I can cultivate a field free of all its noxious weeds and touch never a food - plant .
I can steer a plow straight as a snapped chalk - string , grade seed with a sure eye ; I can spread manure - " " I 'm sure you can , Waziri , " Aaron said .
" I need a man of just those rare qualifications to work for me .
Know you such a paragon ? "
" Mother 's name !
Myself , your Honor ! "
Aaron Stoltzfoos shook the hand of his hired man , an alien convention that much impressed Waziri .
The boy was to draw three hundred anenes a day , some thirty - five cents , well above the local minimum - wage conventions ; and he would get his bed and meals .
Aaron 's confidence that the boastful lad would make a farmer was bolstered by Waziri 's loud calculations : " Three hundred coppers a day make , in ten day 's work , a bronze cowrie ; ten big bronzes make a silver cowrie , the price of an acre of land .
Haruna , will you teach me your off - world farming ?
Will you allow me to buy land that neighbors yours ? "
" Sei schtill , Buu , " Aaron said , laughing .
" Before you reap your first crop , you must find me the Sarki . "
" We are here , Master Haruna . "
The Sarki 's house was no larger than its neighbors , Moorish - styled and domed - roofed like the others ; but it wore on its streetside walls designs cut into the stucco , scrolls and arabesques .
Just above the doorway , which opened spang onto the broadway of Datura , a grinning face peered down upon the visitors , its eyes ruby - colored glass .
Waziri pounded the door for Aaron , and stepped aside to let his new employer do the speaking .
They were admitted to the house by a thin , old man wearing a pink turban .
As they followed this butler down a hallway , Aaron and Waziri heard the shrieks and giggles of feminine consternation that told of women being herded into the zenana .
The Amishman glimpsed one of the ladies , perhaps Sarki Kazunzumi 's most junior wife , dashing toward the female sanctuary .
Her eyes were lozenges of antimony ; her hands , dipped in henna , seemed clad in pale kid gloves .
Aaron , recalling pointers on Murnan etiquette he 'd received at Georgetown , elaborately did not see the lady .
He removed his hat as the turbaned butler bowed him to a plush - covered sofa .
Waziri was cuffed to a mat beside the door . "
Rankeshi dade ! "
the Sarki said .
" May the Mother bring you the light of understanding . "
" Light and long life , O Sarki , " Stoltzfoos said , standing up .
" Will the guest who honors my roof - cup taste coffee with his fortunate host ? "
the Sarki asked .
" The lucky guest will be ever the Sarki 's servant if your Honor allows him to share his pleasure with his fellow - farmer and employee , Waziri the son of Musa , " Aaron said .
" You 'd better have hired mice to guard your stored grain , O Haruna ; and blowflies to curry your cattle , than to have engaged the son of Musa as a farmer , " Kazunzumi growled .
" Waziri has little light of understanding .
He will try to win from the soil what only honest sweat and Mother 's grace can cause to grow .
This boy will gray your beard , Haruna . "
" Perhaps the sun that warms the soil will light his brains to understanding , " Aaron suggested .
" Better that your hand should leave the plowhandle from time to time to warm his lazy fundament , " the Sarki said .
" Just so , O Sarki , " the Amishman said .
" If Waziri does not serve me well , I have an enormous boar who will , if kept long enough from wholesomer food , rid me of a lazy farm - hand . "
Waziri grinned at all the attention he was getting from the two most important men in town , and sat expectantly as the turbaned elder brought in coffee .
Stoltzfoos watched the Sarki , and aped his actions .
Water was served with the coffee ; this was to rinse the mouth that the beverage could be tasted with fresh taste buds .
The coffee was brown as floodwater silt , heavy with sugar , and very hot ; and the cups had no handles .
" You are the first European I have seen for many years , friend Haruna , " the Sarki said .
" It is five years gone that the white off - worlders came , and with a black man as their voice purchased with silver the land you now farm . "
" They bought well , " Aaron said ; " the seller sold justly .
When the fist of winter loosens , the soil will prove as rich as butter . "
" When the first green breaks through , and you may break the soil without offense , you will do well , " Kazunzumi said .
" You are a man who loves the land . "
" My fathers have flourished with the soil for twenty generations , " the Amishman said .
" I pray another twenty may live to inherit my good fortune . "
" Haruna , " the Sarki said , " I see that you are a man of the book , that volume of which Mother in her grace turns over a fresh page each spring .
Though your skin is as pale as the flesh of my palm , though you have but one wife , though you speak throat - deep and strangely , yet you and I are more alike than different .
The Mother has given you light , Haruna , her greatest gift . "
" I thank the Sarki for his words , " Aaron said .
" Sir , my good and only wife - I am a poor man , and bound by another law than that of the fortunate Kazunzumi - adds her thanks to mine for the rich gifts the Chief of Datura presented us , his servants .
In simple thanks , I have some poor things to tender our benefactor . "
Waziri , perceiving the tenor of Aaron 's talk , sprang to his feet and hastened out to the wagon for the bundles he 'd seen under the seat .
He returned , staggering under a seventy - pound bale of long - leaf tobacco , product of Aaron 's father 's farm .
He went back for a bolt of scarlet silk for the Sarki 's paramount wife , and strings of candy for the great man 's children .
He puffed in with one last brown - wrapped parcel , which he unpacked to display a leather saddle .
This confection was embossed with a hundred intricate designs , rich with silver ; un - Amish as a Christmas tree .
Judging from the Sarki 's dazzled thanks , the saddle was just the thing for a Murnan Chief .
As soon as Kazunzumi had delivered his pyrotechnic speech of thanks , and had directed that Aaron 's gifts be placed on a velvet - draped dais at the end of the room , a roast kid was brought in .
Waziri , half drunk with the elegance of it all , fell to like any other adolescent boy , and was soon grease to the armpits .
Aaron , more careful , referred his actions to the Sarki 's .
The bread must be broken , not cut ; and it was eaten with the right hand only , the left lying in the lap as though broken .
Belching seemed to be de rigueur as a tribute to the cuisine , so Aaron belched his stomach flat .
Business could now be discussed .
Aaron , having no pencil , traced with a greasy finger on the tile floor the outlines of the barn and farmhouse he envisaged .
The Sarki from time to time demanded of young Waziri such facts as a carpenter 's son might be expected to know , and added lumber - prices in his head as Aaron 's bank - barn and two - story farmhouse took form in his imagination .
Finally he told the Amishman what the two buildings would cost .
Better pleased by this figure than he 'd expected to be , Aaron initiated the long - drawn ceremony required to discharge himself from Kazunzumi 's hospitality .
[ Illustration ] As the Stoltzfoos wagon jolted out the gate of Datura , bearing the cot and clothes trunk of Waziri together with the owner of those chattels , the boys who 'd jeered before now stared with respect .
The black - hatted Turawa had been to visit the Sarki ; this established him as no safe man to mock .
Waziri gave his late playmates no notice beyond sitting rather straighter on the wagon seat than was comfortable .
There was light enough left when they got back to the farm for Aaron and Waziri to pace out the dimensions of the barn and house .
The bank - barn would go up first , of course .
No Christian owner of beasts could consent to being well - housed while his animals steamed and shivered in a cloth - sided tent .
Waziri pounded stakes into the frozen ground to mark the corners of the barn .
Aaron pointed out the drainage - line that would have to be ditched , and explained how the removed earth would be packed , with the clay dug for the cellar , into a ramp leading to the barn 's second story in the back .
Come next fall , the hayladder could be pulled right up that driveway to be unloaded above the stalls .
Aaron took the boy to the frozen - solid creek to show him where a wheel could be placed to lift water to a spillway for the upper fields .
He introduced his new helper to Wutzchen , and was pleased to hear Waziri speak wistfully of pork chops .
Waziri did n't want to meet Martha yet , though .
As a proper Murnan boy , he was not eager to be introduced to the boss ' barefaced wife , though she bribed him with a fat wedge of applecake .
When Waziri set out with the lantern to tend to the final outdoor chores , Aaron inquired of his wife 's day .
The Sarki 's Paramount Wife , with two servants , had indeed visited , bringing more gifts of food and clothing .
Somehow the four of them had managed to breach the Hausa - Pennsylfawnisch Deitsch curtain .
" What in the world did you talk about ? "
Aaron asked .
" First , not knowing what to say , I showed the ladies a drop of vinegar under the microscope , " Martha said .
" They screamed when they saw all the wriggly worms , and I was put to it to keep them from bundling back home .
Then we talked about you , Stoltz , and about the farm ; and when would I be giving you Kinner to help with all the work , " she said .
Martha fiddled with the cloak she was sewing for her husband .
" It was largely their heathen speech we used , so I understood only what they pointed at ; but they ate hearty of anything without vinegar in it , and I laughed with them like with friends at a quilting - bee .
My , Stoltz !
Those Nay - yer women are lovely , all jeweled like queens , even the servant girls ; even though they have no proper understanding of Christian behavior . "
" Did they make you feel welcome , then ? "
Aaron asked . "
Ach , ja !
They pitied me , I thought , " Martha said .
" They said you must be poor , to have but one wife to comfort you ; but they said that if the crops be good , you can earn a second woman by next winter .
Chuudes Paste ! "
" I hope you told the Sarki 's woman we 've been married only since haying - time , " Aaron said , " and it 's a bit previous for you to be giving me little farmhands . "
" I did that , " Martha said .
" I told them , too , that by the time the oak leaves are the size of squirrel 's ears - if this place has oaks , indeed , or squirrels - we 'd have a youngling squalling in our house , loud as any of the Sarki 's . "
Waziri , crouched near the tent to pick up such talk as might pass inside concerning himself , was at first dismayed by Aaron 's whoops of joy .
Then Martha joined her husband in happy laughter .
Since her tiny - garments line had been delivered in Low Dutch , the young Murnan chose to believe that the enthusiastic sounds he heard within the tent reflected joy at his employment .
It was cold the week the barn was raised , and the mattocks had heavy work gouging out frozen earth to be heaped into the bank leading up the back .
The Murnan laborers seemed to think midwinter as appropriate as any other time for building ; they said the Mother slept , and would not be disturbed .
Martha served coffee and buttermilk - pop at break - time , and presided over noontime feasts , served in several sittings , in the tent .
Before the workers left in the evening , Aaron would give each a drink out back , scharifer cider , feeling that they 'd steamed hard enough to earn a sip of something volatile .
There are matters , he mused , in which common sense can blink at a bishop ; as in secretly trimming one 's beard a bit , for example , to keep it out of one 's soup ; or plucking a guitar to raise the spirits .
When the fortnight 's cold work was done , the Stoltzfoos Farm was like nothing seen before on Murna .
The bank - barn was forty feet high .
On its lee side , Aaron had nailed thin , horizontal strips of wood about a foot apart , hoping to encourage the mud - daubing birds he 'd seen on the wall at Datura to plaster their nests onto his barn , and shop for insects in his fields .
Lacking concrete , he 'd constructed a roofless stone hut abutting the barn to serve as his manure shed .
The farmhouse itself was a bit gay , having an inside toilet to cheat the Murnan winters and a sunporch for Martha 's bacteriological equipment .
As the nearest Amish Volle Diener - Congregational Bishop - was eighty light - years off , and as the circumstances were unusual , Aaron felt that he and Martha were safe from the shunning - Meidung - that was the Old Order 's manner of punishing Amischers guilty of " going gay " by breaking the church rules against worldly show .
A third outbuilding puzzled the Murnan carpenters even more than the two - storied wooden house and the enormous barn .
This shed had hinged sidings that could be propped out to let breezes sweep through the building .
Aaron explained to Musa the function of this tobacco shed , where he would hang his lathes of long - leafed tobacco to cure from August through November .
The tobacco seedlings were already sprouting in Mason jars on the sunporch window - sills .
The bank - barn 's basement was also dedicated to tobacco .
Here , in midwinter , Aaron and Martha and Waziri would strip , size , and grade the dry leaves for sale in Datura .
Tobacco had always been a prime cash - crop for Levi , Aaron 's father .
After testing the bitter native leaf , Aaron knew that his Pennsylvania Type 41 would sell better here than anything else he could grow .
Martha Stoltzfoos was as busy in her new farmhouse as Aaron and Waziri were in the barn .
Her kitchen stove burned all day .
Nothing ever seen in Lancaster County , this stove was built of fireclay and brick ; but the food it heated was honest Deitsch .
There were pickled eggs and red beets , ginger tomatoes canned back home , spiced peaches , pickled pears , mustard pickles and chowchow , pickled red cabbage , Schnitz un Knepp , shoo - fly pie , vanilla pie , rhubarb sauce , Cheddar cheeses the size of Waziri 's head , haystacks of sauerkraut , slices off the great slab of home - preserved chipped beef , milk by the gallon , stewed chicken , popcorn soup , rashers of bacon , rivers of coffee .
In the evenings , protecting her fingers from the sin of idleness , Martha quilted and cross - stitched by lamplight .
Already her parlor wall boasted a framed motto that reduced to half a dozen German words , the Amish philosophy of life : " What One Likes Doing is No Work . "
For all the chill of the late - winter winds , Aaron kept himself and his young helper in a sweat .
Martha 's cooking and the heavy work were slabbing muscle onto Waziri 's lean , brown frame .
Aaron 's farming methods , so much different to Murnan routines , puzzled and intrigued the boy .
Aaron was equally bemused by the local taboos .
Why , for example , did all the politer Murnans eat with the right hand only ?
Why did the women veil themselves in his presence ?
And what was this Mother - goddess worship that seemed to require no more of its adherents than the inclusion of their deity 's name in every curse , formal and profane ?
" Think what you please , but not too loud , " Aaron cautioned himself , and carefully commenced to copy those Murnan speech - forms , gestures , and attitudes that did not conflict with his own deep convictions .
But the soil was his employment , not socializing .
Aaron wormed his swine , inspected his horse - powered plow and harrow , gazed at the sun , palpated the soil , and prayed for an early spring to a God who understood German .
Each day , to keep mold from strangling the moist morsels , he shook the jars of tobacco seed , whose hair - fine sprouts were just splitting the hulls .
The rations packaged in Pennsylvania were shrinking .
The Stoltzfoos stake of silver and gold cowries was wasting away .
Each night , bruised with fatigue , Aaron brought his little household into the parlor while he read from the Book that had bound his folk to the soil .
Waziri bowed , honoring his master 's God in his master 's manner , but understood nothing of the hard High German : " For the Lord God will help me : therefore shall I not be confounded : therefore have I set my face like a flint , and I know I shall not be ashamed .
Awmen . "
" Awmen , " said Martha .
" Awmen , " said Waziri , fisting his hand in respect to his friend 's bearded God .
The Murnan neighbors , to whom late winter was the slackest season in the farm - year , visited often to observe and comment on the off - worlder 's work .
Aaron Stoltzfoos privately regarded the endless conversations as too much of a good thing ; but he realized that his answering the Murnan 's questions helped work off the obligation he owed the government for the eighty light - years ' transportation it had given him , the opportunity he 'd been given to earn this hundred acres with five years ' work , and the interest - free loans that had put up his barn and farmhouse .
With Waziri hovering near , Aaron 's proud lieutenant , the neighbors would stuff their pipes with native tobacco , a leaf that would have gagged one of Sir Walter Raleigh 's Indian friends , while the Amishman lit a stogie in self - defense .
Why , the neighbor farmers demanded , did Aaron propose to dust his bean - seeds with a powder that looked like soot ?
Martha 's microscope , a wonder , introduced the Murnans to bacteria ; and Aaron tediously translated his knowledge of the nitrogen - fixing symbiotes into Hausa .
But there were other questions .
What was the purpose of the brush stacked on top of the smooth - raked beds where Aaron proposed to plant his tobacco - seedlings ?
He explained that fire , second best to steaming , would kill the weed - seeds in the soil , and give the tobacco uncrowded beds to prosper in .
Those needles with which he punctured the flanks of his swine and cattle : what devils did they exorcise ?
Back to the microscope for an explanation of the disease - process , a sophistication the Murnans had lost in the years since they 'd left Kano .
What were the bits of blue and pink paper Aaron pressed into mudballs picked up in the various precincts of his property ?
Why did those slips oftentime change color , from blue to pink , or pink - to - blue ?
What was in those sacks of stuff - no dung of animals , but a sort of flour - that he intended to work into his soil ?
Aaron answered each question as best he could , Waziri supplying - and often inventing - Hausa words for concepts like phosphorous , ascarid worms , and litmus .
Aaron had as much to learn from his brown - skinned neighbors as he had to teach them .
He was persuaded to lay in a supply of seed - yams , guaranteeing a crop that would bring bronze cowries next fall in Datura , the price of next year 's oil and cloth and tools .
The peanut , a legume Aaron had no experience of beyond purchasing an occasional tooth - ful at the grocery - store , won half a dozen acres from Korean lespedeza , the crop he 'd at first selected as his soil - improver there .
He got acquainted with a plant no Amishman before him had ever sown , a crabgrass called fonio , a staple cereal and source of beer - malt on Murna , imported with the first Nigerian colonists .
Aaron refused to plant any lalle , the henna - shrub from which the Murnans made the dye to stain their women 's hands , feeling that it would be improper for him to contribute to such a vanity .
Bulrush millet , another native crop , was ill suited to Aaron 's well - drained fields .
He planned to grow corn , though , the stuff his people called Welschkarn - alien corn .
Though American enough , maize had been a foreigner to the first Amish farmers , and still carried history in its name .
This crop was chiefly for Wutzchen , whose bloodlines , Aaron was confident , would lead to a crop of pork of a quality these heretics from Islam had never tasted before .
Work was n't everything .
One Sunday , after he and Martha had sung together from the Ausbund , and Aaron had read from the Schrift and the Martyr 's Mirror , there was time to play .
Sarki Kazunzumi and several other gentlemen who enjoyed City Hall or Chamber of Commerce standing in Datura had come to visit the Stoltzfooses after lunch ; as had Musa the carpenter and his older son , Dauda , Waziri 's brother .
Also on the premises were about a dozen of the local farmers and craftsmen , inspecting the curious architecture the off - worlder had introduced to their planet .
Aaron , observing that the two classes of his guests were maintaining a polite fiction , each that the other was not present , had an idea .
He 'd seen Murnans in town at the midwinter festival , their status - consciousness forgotten in mutual quaffs of fonio - beer or barley - brandy , betting together at horse - races and wheels - of - fortune .
" My friends , " the Amishman addressed the Murnans gathered in his barn , inspecting Wutzchen , " let 's play a game of ball . "
Kazunzumi looked interested .
As the local Chief of State , the Sarki 's approval guaranteed the enthusiasm of all the lesser ranks .
Aaron explained the game he had in mind .
It was n't baseball , an " English " sport foreign to Amishmen , who can get through their teens without having heard of either Comiskey Park or the World Series .
Their game , Mosch Balle , fits a barnyard better .
In lieu of the regulation softball used in the game of Corner Ball , Martha had stitched together a sort of large beanbag .
The playing - field Aaron set up with the help of his visitors was a square some twelve yards on a side , fence - rails being propped up to mark its boundaries and fresh straw forked onto it six inches deep as footing .
Aaron 's eight - man team was chosen from the working - stiffs .
The opposing eight were the Brass .
To start the game , four of the proletarians stood at the corners of the square ; and two men of Kazunzumi 's team waited warily within .
Aaron commenced to explain the game .
To say that the object of Mosch Balle is for a member of the outer , offensive , team to strike an inner , defensive man with the ball is inadequate ; such an explanation is as lacking as to explain baseball as the pitcher 's effort to throw a ball so well that it 's hittable , and so very well that it yet goes unhit .
Both games have their finer points .
" Now , " Aaron told his guests on the field , " we four on the corners will toss the ball back and forth amongst ourselves , shouting Hah , Oh , Tay , with each pitch .
Whoever has the ball on Tay has to fling it at one of the two men inside the square .
If he misses , he 's Out ; and one of the other men on our team takes his place .
If he hits his target - man , the target 's Out , and will be replaced by another man from the Sarki 's team .
The team with the last man left on the straw wins the first half .
Des iss der Weeg wie mir 's diehne , O.K. ? "
" Afuwo ! "
the Sarki yelled , a woman 's call , grinning , crouched to spring aside .
" Hah ! "
Aaron shouted , and tossed the ball to Waziri 's older brother , Dauda .
" Oh ! "
Dauda yelled , and threw the ball to the shoemaker .
" Tay ! "
the cobbler exulted , and slammed the ball at the lower - ranking of the two men within the square , the village banker .
The shoemaker missed , and was retired .
The Daturans were soon stripped down to trousers and boots , their black torsos steaming in the cold air .
Aaron removed his shirt - but not his hat - and so far forgot his Hausa in the excitement that he not only rooted for his teammates in Pennsylfawnisch Deitsch , but even punctuated several clumsy plays with raw Fadomm ' s.
Aaron 's skill won the first half for his team .
Blooded , the Chamber of Commerce Eight fought through to win the second half .
A tie .
The play - off saw the Working - Man 's League pummeled to a standstill by the C - of - C , who took the laurels with a final slam that knocked Waziri into the straw , protesting that it was an accident .
Sweating , laughing , social status for the moment forgotten , the teams and their mobs of fans surged into the farmhouse to demand of Martha wedges of raisin pie and big cups of strong coffee .
As the guests put their rigas and their white caps back on , and assumed therewith their game - discarded rank of class , they assured Aaron that the afternoon at the ball game had been a large success .
The next day was crisp and cold .
With nothing more to be done till the soil thawed , Aaron took Waziri down to the creek to investigate his project of irrigating the hilltop acres .
The flow of water was so feeble that the little stream was ice to its channel .
" Do you have hereabouts a digger - of - waterholes ? "
Aaron asked the boy .
Waziri nodded , and supplied the Hausa phrase for this skill .
" Good .
Wonn 's Gottes wille iss , I will find a spot for them to dig , smelling out the water as can my cousin Blue Ball Benjamin Blank , " Aaron said .
" Go get from the barn the pliers , the hand - tool that pinches . "
Waziri trotted off and brought back the pliers .
" What are you up to , Haruna - boss ? "
he asked .
Aaron was holding the bulldog pliers out before him , one handle in each hand , parallel to the ground .
" I am smelling for the well - place , " the Amishman said , pacing deliberately across the field .
The boy scampered along beside him .
" We will need at least one well to be safe from August draught .
Cousin Benjamin found the wet depths in this fashion ; perhaps it will work for me . "
Aaron walked , arms outstretched , for half an hour before his face grew taut .
He slowed his walking and began to work toward the center of a spiral .
Waziri could see the sweat springing up on the young farmer 's brow and fingers , despite the cold breeze that blew .
The bulldog pliers trembled as though responding to the throbbing of an engine .
Suddenly , as though about to be jerked from Aaron 's hands , the pliers tugged downward so forceably that he had to lift his elbows and flex his wrists to hold onto them .
" Put a little pile of stones here , Waziri , " he said .
" We 'll have the diggers visit as soon as the ground thaws . "
[ Illustration ] Waziri shook his head .
" Haruna , they will not touch soft earth until the first grass sprouts , " he said .
" Time enough , " Aaron said .
He looked up to satisfy himself that his prospective well - site was high enough to avoid drainage from his pig - yard , then left the Murnan boy to pile up a cairn for the diggers .
It would be good to have a windmill within ear - shot of the house , he mused ; its squeaking would ease Martha with a homey sound .
[ Illustration ] Alone for a few minutes , Aaron retired to the workshop in the cellar of the barn .
He planed and sanded boards of a native lumber very like to tulipwood .
Into the headboard of the cradle he was making , he keyhole - sawed the same sort of broad Dutch heart that had marked his own cradle , and the cradles of all his family back to the days in the Rhineland , before they 'd been driven to America .
Martha Stoltzfoos was speaking Hausa better than she 'd spoken English since grade - school days , and she kept busy in the little bacteriological laboratory on her sunporch , keeping fresh the skills she 'd learned at Georgetown and might some day need in earnest ; but she still grew homesick as her child - coming day drew nearer .
It was wrong , she told Aaron , for an Amishwoman to have heathen midwives at her lying - in .
For all their kindness , the Murnan women could never be as reassuring as the prayer - covered , black - aproned matrons who 'd have attended Martha back home .
" Ach , Stoltz , " she told her husband , " if only a few other of unser sart Leit could have come here with us . "
" Do n't worry , Love , " Aaron said .
" I 've eased calves and colts enough into the world ; man - children ca n't come so different . "
" You talk like a man , " Martha accused him .
" I wish my Mem was just down the road a piece , ready to come a - running when my time came , " she said .
She put one hand on her apron . "
Chuudes Paste !
The little rascal is wild as a colt , indeed .
Feel him , Stoltz ! "
Aaron dutifully placed his hand to sense the child 's quickening .
" He 'll be of help on the farm , so strong as he is , " he remarked .
Then , tugging his hat down tight , Aaron went outdoors , bashful before this mystery .
The little creek had thawed , and the light of the sun on a man 's face almost gave back the heat the air extorted .
Waziri had gone to town today for some sort of Murnan spring - festival , eager to celebrate his hard - earned wealth on his first day off in months .
The place seemed deserted , Aaron felt , without the boy ; without the visitors he 'd played ball and talked crops with , striding up in their scarlet - trimmed rigas to gossip with their friend Haruna .
Between the roadway and the house , Aaron knelt to rake up with his fingers a handful of the new - thawed soil .
He squeezed it .
The clod in his hand broke apart of its own weight : it was not too wet to work .
Festival - day though it was to his Schwotzer neighbors , he was eager to spear this virgin soil with his plow blade .
Aaron strode back to the barn .
He hitched Rosina - the dappled mare , named " Raisin " for her spots - to the plow and slapped her into motion .
Sleek with her winter 's idleness , Rosina was at first unenthusiastic about the plow ; but the spring sun and honest exercise warmed her quickly .
Within half an hour she was earning her keep .
Though Aaron was plowing shallow , the compact soil broke hard .
Rosina leaned into the traces , leaving hoofprints three inches deep .
No gasoline tractor , Aaron mused , could ever pull itself through soil so rich and damp .
Geilsgrefte , horsepower , was best exerted by a horse , he thought .
The brown earth - smells were good .
Aaron kicked apart the larger clods , fat with a planet - life of weather and rich decay .
This land would take a good deal of disking to get it into shape .
His neighbors , who 'd done their heavy plowing just after last fall 's first frost , were already well ahead of him .
He stabled Rosina at sundown , and went in to sneak a well - earned glass of hard cider past Martha 's teetotaling eye .
Musa the carpenter brought his son home well after dark .
Waziri had had adventures , the old man said ; dancing , gambling on the Fool 's Wheel , sampling fonio - beer , celebrating his own young life 's springtime with the earth 's .
Both the old man and the boy were barefoot , Aaron noticed ; but said nothing : perhaps shoelessness was part of their spring - festival .
Waziri a bit geschwepst with the beer , tottered off to bed .
" Thanks to you , friend Haruna , that boy became a man today , " the carpenter said .
He accepted a glass of Aaron 's cider .
" Today Waziri 's wallet jingled with bronze and copper earned by his own sweat , a manful sound to a lad of fifteen summers .
I ask pardon for having returned your laborer in so damaged a condition , brother Haruna ; but you may be consoled with the thought that the Mother 's festival comes but once in the twelve - month . "
" No harm was done , brother Musa , " Aaron said , offering his visitor tobacco .
" In my own youth , I sometimes danced with beer - light feet to the music of worldly guitars ; and yet I reached a man 's estate . "
Offered a refill for his pipe , Musa raised a hand in polite refusal .
" Tomorrow 's sun will not wait on our conversation , and much must be done , in the manner of racers waiting the signal , before the first blade breaks the soil , " he said .
" Good night , brother Haruna ; and may Mother grant you light ! "
" Mother keep you , brother Musa , " Aaron murmured the heathen phrase without embarrassment .
" I 'll guide your feet to your wagon , if I may . "
Aaron , carrying the naphtha lantern , led the way across the strip of new - plowed soil .
Set by frost into plastic mounds and ridges , the earth bent beneath his shoes and the carpenter 's bare feet .
Aaron swung Musa 's picket - iron , the little anchor to which his horse was tethered , into the wagon , noticing that it had been curiously padded with layers of quilted cloth .
" May you journey home in good health , brother Musa , " he said . "
Uwaka ! "
Musa shouted , staring at the plow - cuts .
Aaron Stoltzfoos dropped the lantern to his side , amazed that the dignified old man could be guilty of such an obscenity .
Perhaps he 'd misheard .
" Haruna , you have damned yourself ! "
Musa bellowed .
" Cursed be this farm !
Cursed be thy farming !
May thy seedlings rot , may thy corn sprout worms for tassles , may your cattle stink and make early bones ! "
" Brother Musa ! "
Aaron said .
" I am no sib to you , O Bearded One , " Musa said .
" Nor will I help you carry the curse you have brought upon yourself by today 's ill - doing . "
He darted back to the farmhouse , where he ordered half - wakened Waziri to pad barefoot after him to the wagon , rubbing his eyes .
" Come , son , " Musa said .
" We must flee these ill - omened fields . "
Without another word to his host , the carpenter hoisted his boy into the wagon , mounted , and set off into the night .
The hoofs of his horse padded softly against the dirt road , unshod .
Martha met the bewildered Aaron at the door , wakened by Musa 's shouting . "
Wass gibt , Stoltz ? "
she asked .
" What for was all the carry - on ? "
Aaron tugged at his beard .
" I do n't know , woman , " he admitted .
" Musa the carpenter took one look at the plowing I did today , then cursed me as though he 'd caught me spitting in his well .
He got Waziri up from bed and took him home . "
He took his wife 's hand .
" I 'm sorry he woke you up , Liebchen . "
" It was not so much the angry carpenter who waked me as the little jack rabbit you 're father to , " Martha said .
" As you say , a Bun who can kick so hard , and barefoot , too , will be a strong one once he 's born . "
Aaron was staring out the window onto the dark road . "
Farwas hot Musa sell gehuh ? "
he asked himself .
" What for did Musa do such a thing ?
He knows that our ways are different to his .
If I did aught wrong , Musa must know it was done not for want to harm .
I will go to the village tomorrow ; Musa must forgive me and explain . "
" He will , Stoltz . "
Martha said . "
Kuum , schloef .
You 'll be getting up early . "
" How can I sleep , not knowing how I have hurt my friend ? "
Aaron asked .
" You must , " Martha urged him .
" Let your cares rest for the night , Aaron . "
In the morning , Stoltzfoos prepared for his trip into Datura by donning his Sunday - best .
He clipped a black patent - leather bow tie , a wedding gift , onto his white shirt : and fastened up his best broadfall trousers with his dress suspenders .
Over this , Aaron put his Mutzi , the tailed frock coat that fastened with hooks - and - eyes .
When he 'd exchanged his broad - brimmed black felt working - hat for another just the same , but unsweated , Aaron was dressed as he 'd be on his way to a House - Amish Sunday meeting back home .
" I expect no trouble here , Martha , " he said , tucking a box of stogies under his arm as a little guest - gift for the old carpenter .
" Hurry home , Stoltz ; I feel wonderful busy about the middle , " Martha said .
There was a noise out on the road .
" Listen ! "
she said .
" Go look the window out , now ; someone is coming the yard in ! "
Aaron hastened to lift the green roller - blind over the parlor window .
" Ach ; it is the groesie Fisch , Sarki Kazunzumi , with half the folk from town , " he said .
" Stay here , woman .
I will out and talk with them . "
The Sarki sat astride his white pony , staring as Aaron approached him .
Behind their chief , on lesser beasts , sat Kazunzumi 's retainers , each with a bundle in his arms .
" Welcome , O Sarki ! "
Aaron said , raising his fist .
Kazunzumi did not return the Amishman 's salute .
" I return your gifts , Lightless One , " he announced .
" They are tainted with your blasphemy . "
He nodded , and his servants dismounted to stack at the side of the road Aaron 's guest - gifts of months before .
The bale of tobacco was set down , the bolt of scarlet silk , the chains of candy , the silver - filigreed saddle .
" Now that I owe you naught , Bearded One , we have no further business with one another . "
He reined his horse around .
" I go in sadness , Haruna , " he said .
" What did I do , Kazunzumi ? "
Aaron asked .
" What am I to make of your displeasure ? "
" You have failed us , who was my friend , " the Sarki said .
" You will leave this place , taking your woman and your beasts and your sharp - shod horses . "
" Sir , where am I to go ? "
" Whence came you , Haruna ? "
the Sarki asked .
" Return to your own black - garbed folk , and injure the Mother no longer with your lack of understanding . "
" Sarki Kazunzumi , I know not how I erred , " Stoltzfoos said .
" As for returning to my own country , that I can not .
The off - world vessel that brought us here is star - far away ; and it will not return until we are all five summers older .
My Martha is besides with child , and can not safely travel .
My land is ripe for seeding .
How can I go now ? "
" There is wilderness to the south , where no son of the Mother lives , " the Sarki said .
" Go there .
I care not for heathen who are out of my sight . "
" Sir , show us mercy , " Aaron said .
Kazunzumi danced his shoeless horse around to face Aaron .
" Haruna , who was my friend , whom I thought to stand with me in Mother 's light , I would be merciful ; but I can not be weak .
It is not me whom you must beseech , but the Mother who feeds us all .
Make amends to Her , then Sarki Kazunzumi will give his ear to your pleas .
Without amends , Haruna , you must go from here within the week . "
Kazunzumi waved his arm and galloped off toward Datura .
His servants followed quickly .
On the roadside lay the gifts , dusted from the dirt raised by the horses .
The Amishman turned toward the house .
Martha 's face was at the parlor window , quizzical under her prayer - covering , impatient to hear what had happened .
Aaron plodded back to the house with the evil news , stumbling over a clod of earth in the new - turned furrows near the road .
Martha met him at the door . "
Waas will er ? "
she demanded .
" He says we must leave our farm . "
" Why for ? "
she asked .
" Somehow , I have offended their fadommt Mum - god , " Aaron said .
" The Sarki has granted us a week to make ready to go into the wilderness . "
He sat on a coffee - colored kitchen chair , his head bowed and his big hands limp between his knees .
" Stoltz , where can we go ? "
Martha asked .
" We have no Freindschaft , no kin , in all this place . "
Aaron tightened his hands into fists .
" We will not go ! "
he vowed .
" I will find a way for us to stay . "
He broke open the box of cigars that had been meant as a gift for Musa and clamped one of the black stogies between his teeth .
" What is their heidisch secret ? "
he demanded .
" What does the Mother want of me ? "
" Aaron Stoltz , " Martha said vigorously , " I 'll have no man of mine offering dignity to a heathen god .
The Schrift orders us to cut down the groves of the alien gods , to smash their false images ; not to bow before them .
Will you make a golden calf here , as did your namesake Aaron of Egypt , for whose sin the Children of Israel were plagued ? "
" Woman , I 'll not have you preach to me like a servant of the Book , " Aaron said .
" It is not for you to cite Scripture . "
He stared through the window .
" What does the Mother want of me ? "
" As you shout , do not forget that I am a mother , too , " Martha said .
She dabbed a finger at her eye . "
Fagep mir , Liebling , " Aaron said .
He walked behind the chair where his wife sat .
Tenderly , he kneaded the muscles at the back of her neck .
" I am trying to get inside Musa 's head , and Kazunzumi 's ; I am trying to see their world through their eyes .
It is not an easy thing to do , Martha .
Though I lived for a spell among the ' English , ' my head is still House - Amish ; a fat , Dutch cheese . "
" It is a good head , " Martha said , relaxing under his massage , " and if there be cheese - heads hereabouts , it 's these blackfolk that wear them , and not my man . "
" If I knew what the die - hinker our neighbors mean by their Mother - talk , it might be I could see myself through Murnan eyes , as I can hear a bit with Hausa ears , " Aaron said . "
Iss sell nix so , Martha ? "
" We should have stood at home , and thought with our own good heads , " she said .
" Let me think , " Aaron said .
" If I were to strike you , wife , " he mused , " it could do you great hurt , and harm our unborn child , Nee ? "
" Aaron ! "
Martha scooted out from under her husbands kneading hands . "
Druuvel dich net ! "
he said .
" I am only thinking .
These blackfolk now , these neighbors who were before last night our friends , speak of Light as our bishop at home speaks of Grace .
To have it is to have all , to be one with the congregation .
If I can find this Light , we and the Sarki and his people can again be friends . "
Aaron sat down .
" I must learn what I have done wrong , " he said .
" Other than drink a glass of cider now and then , and make worldly music with a guitar , you 've done no wrong , " Martha said stubbornly .
" You 're a good man . "
" In the Old Order , I am a good man , so long as no Diener makes trouble over a bit of singing or cider , " Aaron said .
" As a guest on Murna , I have done some deed that has hurt this Mother - god , whom our neighbors hold dear . "
" Heathenish superstition ! "
" Martha , love , I am older than you , and a man , " Aaron said .
" Give me room to think !
If the goddess - Mother is heathen as Baal , it matters not ; these folk who worship her hold our future in their hands .
Besides , we owe them the courtesy not to dance in their churches nor to laugh at their prayers ; even the ' English ' have more grace than that . "
Aaron pondered .
" Something in the springtime is the Murnan Mother 's gift , her greatest gift .
What ? "
" Blaspheme not , " Martha said .
" Remember Him who causeth the grass to grow for the cattle , and herb for the service of man : that he may bring forth food out of the earth . "
" Wife , is the True God less , if these people call Him Mother ? "
Aaron demanded .
" We are too far from home , " the woman sighed .
" Such heavy talk is wearisome ; it is for bishops to discourse so , not ordinary folk like us . "
" If I ca n't find the light , " Aaron said , " this farm we live on , and hoped to leave to our children , is n't worth the water in a dish of soup . "
He slapped his hands together and stood to pace .
" Martha , hear me out , " he said .
" If a woman be with child , and a man takes her with lust and against her will , is not that man accursed ? "
" Aaron ! "
she said . "
Haagott , such wicked talk you make ! "
" Seen with Murnan eyes , have I not done just such a cursed thing ? "
Aaron demanded .
" The Mother - god of this world is mit Kinndt , fat with the bounty of springtime .
So tender is the swollen belly of the earth that the people here , simple folk with no more subtle God , strip the iron from the hoofs of their horses not to bruise her .
They bare their feet in her honor , treat her with the tenderness I treat my beloved Martha .
And to this Goddess , swollen earth , I took the plow !
Martha , we are fortunate indeed that our neighbors are gentle people , or I would be hanged now , or stoned to death like the wicked in the old days .
Ich hot iere Gotterin awgepockt : I raped their Goddess ! "
Martha burst into tears .
When Aaron stepped forward to comfort her , she struck his chest with her balled fists .
" Stoltz , I we d you despite your beer - drinking from cans at the Singing , though you play a worldly guitar and sing the English songs , though people told me you drove your gay Uncle Amos ' black - bumpered Ford before you membered to the district ; still , house - Amish pure Old Order though my people are , I married you , from love and youngness and girlish ignorance .
But I do not care , even in this wilderness you 've brought us to in that big English ship , to hear such vileness spoke out boldly .
Leave me alone . "
" I 'll not . "
" You 'd best , " she said .
" I 'm sore offended in the lad I 'm wifed to . "
" Love , Ich bin sorry , " Aaron said .
" The Book , though , says just what our neighbors told me : Ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall set you free .
I have found the truth , the truth of our dark - skinned friends .
I did not want to wound the ears of da Oppel fuun mein Awk , apple - of - mine - eye sweet Martha ; but I must speak out the truth . "
" It is not good enough , " Martha sobbed , " that you accept this brown - skinned , jewel - bedizzened woman - god ; but you must make love to her ; and I , we d to you by the Book , nine months gone with Kinndt , am to make no fuss . "
" I loved the Mother - god with the plow , and accidentally , " Aaron bellowed . "
Haagott !
woman ; have you no funny ? "
" I will birth our child in my lap from laughing , " Martha said , weeping .
" Aaron , do what you will .
I can hardly walk home to my Mem to bear a son in my girlhood bedroom .
We are like Awduum uuu Ayf , like you said ; but the serpent in this Eden pleases me not . "
" When I spoke of colts , and the borning of them , " Aaron said , " I forgot me that mares are more sensible than human women .
Martha , liebe Martha , you we d a man when you married me .
All your vapors are naught against my having seen the light .
If to stay here , on this land already watered with my hard sweat , I had to slaughter cattle in sacrifice to the Mother , I 'd pick up the knife gladly , and feel it no blasphemy against our God . "
" Aaron Stoltz , " Martha said , " I forbid you to lend honor to this god ! "
Aaron sat .
He unlaced his shoes and tugged them off .
" Woman , " he asked softly , " you forbid me ?
Martha , for all the love I bear you , there is one rule of our folk that 's as holy as worship ; and that 's that the man is master in his house . "
He pulled off his black stockings and stood , barefoot , with callouses won on the black earth of his father 's farm ; dressed otherwise meetly as a deacon .
" I will walk to Datura on my naked feet to show our friends I know my wrong - doing , that I have hurt the belly of the pregnant earth .
I will tell Sarki Kazunzumi that I have seen his light ; that my horses will be unshod as I am , that the Mother will not feel my plow again until the grasses spring , when her time will be accomplished . "
Martha crossed her hands about her middle .
" Ach , Stoltz , " she said .
" Our Buu iss reddi far geh , I think .
Today will be his birthday .
Do n't let your tenderness to the earth keep you from walking swiftly to Datura ; and when you return , come in a wagon with the Sarki 's ladies , who understand midwifery .
I think they will find work here . "
" I will hurry , Mother , " Aaron promised .
The End .
Carrin decided that he could trace his present mood to Miller 's suicide last week .
But the knowledge did n't help him get rid of the vague , formless fear in the back of his mind .
It was foolish .
Miller 's suicide did n't concern him .
But why had that fat , jovial man killed himself ?
Miller had had everything to live for - wife , kids , good job , and all the marvelous luxuries of the age .
Why had he done it ?
" Good morning , dear , " Carrin 's wife said as he sat down at the breakfast table .
" Morning , honey .
Morning , Billy . "
His son grunted something .
You just could n't tell about people , Carrin decided , and dialed his breakfast .
The meal was gracefully prepared and served by the new Avignon Electric Auto - cook .
His mood persisted , annoyingly enough since Carrin wanted to be in top form this morning .
It was his day off , and the Avignon Electric finance man was coming .
This was an important day .
He walked to the door with his son .
" Have a good day , Billy . "
His son nodded , shifted his books and started to school without answering .
Carrin wondered if something was bothering him , too .
He hoped not .
One worrier in the family was plenty .
" See you later , honey . "
He kissed his wife as she left to go shopping .
At any rate , he thought , watching her go down the walk , at least she 's happy .
He wondered how much she 'd spend at the A. E. store .
Checking his watch , he found that he had half an hour before the A. E. finance man was due .
The best way to get rid of a bad mood was to drown it , he told himself , and headed for the shower .
The shower room was a glittering plastic wonder , and the sheer luxury of it eased Carrin 's mind .
He threw his clothes into the A. E. automatic Kleen - presser , and adjusted the shower spray to a notch above " brisk . "
The five - degrees - above - skin - temperature water beat against his thin white body .
Delightful !
And then a relaxing rub - dry in the A. E. Auto - towel .
Wonderful , he thought , as the towel stretched and kneaded his stringy muscles .
And it should be wonderful , he reminded himself .
The A. E. Auto - towel with shaving attachments had cost three hundred and thirteen dollars , plus tax .
But worth every penny of it , he decided , as the A. E. shaver came out of a corner and whisked off his rudimentary stubble .
After all , what good was life if you could n't enjoy the luxuries ?
His skin tingled when he switched off the Auto - towel .
He should have been feeling wonderful , but he was n't .
Miller 's suicide kept nagging at his mind , destroying the peace of his day off .
Was there anything else bothering him ?
Certainly there was nothing wrong with the house .
His papers were in order for the finance man .
" Have I forgotten something ? "
he asked out loud .
" The Avignon Electric finance man will be here in fifteen minutes , " his A. E. bathroom Wall - reminder whispered .
" I know that .
Is there anything else ? "
The Wall - reminder reeled off its memorized data - a vast amount of minutiae about watering the lawn , having the Jet - lash checked , buying lamb chops for Monday , and the like .
Things he still had n't found time for .
" All right , that 's enough . "
He allowed the A. E. Auto - dresser to dress him , skillfully draping a new selection of fabrics over his bony frame .
A whiff of fashionable masculine perfume finished him and he went into the living room , threading his way between the appliances that lined the walls .
A quick inspection of the dials on the wall assured him that the house was in order .
The breakfast dishes had been sanitized and stacked , the house had been cleaned , dusted , polished , his wife 's garments had been hung up , his son 's model rocket ships had been put back in the closet .
Stop worrying , you hypochondriac , he told himself angrily .
The door announced , " Mr. Pathis from Avignon Finance is here . "
Carrin started to tell the door to open , when he noticed the Automatic Bartender .
Good God , why had n't he thought of it !
The Automatic Bartender was manufactured by Castile Motors .
He had bought it in a weak moment .
A. E. would n't think very highly of that , since they sold their own brand .
He wheeled the bartender into the kitchen , and told the door to open .
" A very good day to you , sir , " Mr. Pathis said .
Pathis was a tall , imposing man , dressed in a conservative tweed drape .
His eyes had the crinkled corners of a man who laughs frequently .
He beamed broadly and shook Carrin 's hand , looking around the crowded living room .
" A beautiful place you have here , sir .
Beautiful !
As a matter of fact , I do n't think I 'll be overstepping the company 's code to inform you that yours is the nicest interior in this section . "
Carrin felt a sudden glow of pride at that , thinking of the rows of identical houses , on this block and the next , and the one after that .
" Now , then , is everything functioning properly ? "
Mr. Pathis asked , setting his briefcase on a chair .
" Everything in order ? "
" Oh , yes , " Carrin said enthusiastically .
" Avignon Electric never goes out of whack . "
" The phone all right ?
Changes records for the full seventeen hours ? "
" It certainly does , " Carrin said .
He had n't had a chance to try out the phone , but it was a beautiful piece of furniture .
" The Solido - projector all right ?
Enjoying the programs ? "
" Absolutely perfect reception . "
He had watched a program just last month , and it had been startlingly lifelike .
" How about the kitchen ?
Auto - cook in order ?
Recipe - master still knocking 'em out ? "
" Marvelous stuff .
Simply marvelous . "
Mr. Pathis went on to inquire about his refrigerator , his vacuum cleaner , his car , his helicopter , his subterranean swimming pool , and the hundreds of other items Carrin had bought from Avignon Electric .
" Everything is swell , " Carrin said , a trifle untruthfully since he had n't unpacked every item yet .
" Just wonderful . "
" I 'm so glad , " Mr. Pathis said , leaning back with a sigh of relief .
" You have no idea how hard we try to satisfy our customers .
If a product is n't right , back it comes , no questions asked .
We believe in pleasing our customers . "
" I certainly appreciate it , Mr.
Pathis . "
Carrin hoped the A. E. man would n't ask to see the kitchen .
He visualized the Castile Motors Bartender in there , like a porcupine in a dog show .
" I 'm proud to say that most of the people in this neighborhood buy from us , " Mr. Pathis was saying .
" We 're a solid firm . "
" Was Mr. Miller a customer of yours ? "
Carrin asked .
" That fellow who killed himself ? "
Pathis frowned briefly .
" He was , as a matter of fact .
That amazed me , sir , absolutely amazed me .
Why , just last month the fellow bought a brand - new Jet - lash from me , capable of doing three hundred and fifty miles an hour on a straightaway .
He was as happy as a kid over it , and then to go and do a thing like that !
Of course , the Jet - lash brought up his debt a little . "
" Of course . "
" But what did that matter ?
He had every luxury in the world .
And then he went and hung himself . "
" Hung himself ? "
" Yes , " Pathis said , the frown coming back .
" Every modern convenience in his house , and he hung himself with a piece of rope .
Probably unbalanced for a long time . "
The frown slid off his face , and the customary smile replaced it .
" But enough of that !
Let 's talk about you . "
The smile widened as Pathis opened his briefcase .
" Now , then , your account .
You owe us two hundred and three thousand dollars and twenty - nine cents , Mr. Carrin , as of your last purchase .
Right ? "
" Right , " Carrin said , remembering the amount from his own papers .
" Here 's my installment . "
He handed Pathis an envelope , which the man checked and put in his pocket .
" Fine .
Now you know , Mr. Carrin , that you wo n't live long enough to pay us the full two hundred thousand , do n't you ? "
" No , I do n't suppose I will , " Carrin said soberly .
He was only thirty - nine , with a full hundred years of life before him , thanks to the marvels of medical science .
But at a salary of three thousand a year , he still could n't pay it all off and have enough to support a family on at the same time .
" Of course , we would not want to deprive you of necessities , which in any case is fully protected by the laws we helped formulate and pass .
To say nothing of the terrific items that are coming out next year .
Things you would n't want to miss , sir ! "
Mr. Carrin nodded .
Certainly he wanted new items .
" Well , suppose we make the customary arrangement .
If you will just sign over your son 's earnings for the first thirty years of his adult life , we can easily arrange credit for you . "
Mr. Pathis whipped the papers out of his briefcase and spread them in front of Carrin .
" If you 'll just sign here , sir . "
" Well , " Carrin said , " I 'm not sure .
I 'd like to give the boy a start in life , not saddle him with - " " But my dear sir , " Pathis interposed , " this is for your son as well .
He lives here , does n't he ?
He has a right to enjoy the luxuries , the marvels of science . "
" Sure , " Carrin said .
" Only - " " Why , sir , today the average man is living like a king .
A hundred years ago the richest man in the world could n't buy what any ordinary citizen possesses at present .
You must n't look upon it as a debt .
It 's an investment . "
" That 's true , " Carrin said dubiously .
He thought about his son and his rocket ship models , his star charts , his maps .
Would it be right ?
he asked himself .
" What 's wrong ? "
Pathis asked cheerfully .
" Well , I was just wondering , " Carrin said .
" Signing over my son 's earnings - you do n't think I 'm getting in a little too deep , do you ? "
" Too deep ?
My dear sir ! "
Pathis exploded into laughter .
" Do you know Mellon down the block ?
Well , do n't say I said it , but he 's already mortgaged his grandchildren 's salary for their full life - expectancy !
And he does n't have half the goods he 's made up his mind to own !
We 'll work out something for him .
Service to the customer is our job and we know it well . "
Carrin wavered visibly .
" And after you 're gone , sir , they 'll all belong to your son . "
That was true , Carrin thought .
His son would have all the marvelous things that filled the house .
And after all , it was only thirty years out of a life expectancy of a hundred and fifty .
He signed with a flourish .
" Excellent ! "
Pathis said .
" And by the way , has your home got an A. E. Master - operator ? "
It had n't .
Pathis explained that a Master - operator was new this year , a stupendous advance in scientific engineering .
It was designed to take over all the functions of housecleaning and cooking , without its owner having to lift a finger .
" Instead of running around all day , pushing half a dozen different buttons , with the Master - operator all you have to do is push one !
A remarkable achievement ! "
Since it was only five hundred and thirty - five dollars , Carrin signed for one , having it added to his son 's debt .
Right 's right , he thought , walking Pathis to the door .
This house will be Billy 's some day .
His and his wife 's .
They certainly will want everything up - to - date .
Just one button , he thought .
That would be a time - saver !
After Pathis left , Carrin sat back in an adjustable chair and turned on the solido .
After twisting the Ezi - dial , he discovered that there was nothing he wanted to see .
He tilted back the chair and took a nap .
The something on his mind was still bothering him .
" Hello , darling ! "
He awoke to find his wife was home .
She kissed him on the ear .
" Look . "
She had bought an A. E. Sexitizer - negligee .
He was pleasantly surprised that that was all she had bought .
Usually , Leela returned from shopping laden down .
" It 's lovely , " he said .
She bent over for a kiss , then giggled - a habit he knew she had picked up from the latest popular solido star .
He wished she had n't .
" Going to dial supper , " she said , and went to the kitchen .
Carrin smiled , thinking that soon she would be able to dial the meals without moving out of the living room .
He settled back in his chair , and his son walked in .
" How 's it going , Son ? "
he asked heartily .
" All right , " Billy answered listlessly .
" What'sa matter , Son ? "
The boy stared at his feet , not answering .
" Come on , tell Dad what 's the trouble . "
Billy sat down on a packing case and put his chin in his hands .
He looked thoughtfully at his father .
" Dad , could I be a Master Repairman if I wanted to be ? "
Mr. Carrin smiled at the question .
Billy alternated between wanting to be a Master Repairman and a rocket pilot .
The repairmen were the elite .
It was their job to fix the automatic repair machines .
The repair machines could fix just about anything , but you could n't have a machine fix the machine that fixed the machine .
That was where the Master Repairmen came in .
But it was a highly competitive field and only a very few of the best brains were able to get their degrees .
And , although the boy was bright , he did n't seem to have an engineering bent .
" It 's possible , Son .
Anything is possible . "
" But is it possible for me ? "
" I do n't know , " Carrin answered , as honestly as he could .
" Well , I do n't want to be a Master Repairman anyway , " the boy said , seeing that the answer was no .
" I want to be a space pilot . "
" A space pilot , Billy ? "
Leela asked , coming in to the room .
" But there are n't any . "
" Yes , there are , " Billy argued .
" We were told in school that the government is going to send some men to Mars . "
" They 've been saying that for a hundred years , " Carrin said , " and they still have n't gotten around to doing it . "
" They will this time . "
" Why would you want to go to Mars ? "
Leela asked , winking at Carrin .
" There are no pretty girls on Mars . "
" I 'm not interested in girls .
I just want to go to Mars . "
" You would n't like it , honey , " Leela said .
" It 's a nasty old place with no air . "
" It 's got some air .
I 'd like to go there , " the boy insisted sullenly .
" I do n't like it here . "
" What 's that ? "
Carrin asked , sitting up straight .
" Is there anything you have n't got ?
Anything you want ? "
" No , sir .
I 've got everything I want . "
Whenever his son called him ' sir , ' Carrin knew that something was wrong .
" Look , Son , when I was your age I wanted to go to Mars , too .
I wanted to do romantic things .
I even wanted to be a Master Repairman . "
" Then why did n't you ? "
" Well , I grew up .
I realized that there were more important things .
First I had to pay off the debt my father had left me , and then I met your mother - " Leela giggled . "
- and I wanted a home of my own .
It 'll be the same with you .
You 'll pay off your debt and get married , the same as the rest of us . "
Billy was silent for a while , then he brushed his dark hair - straight , like his father 's - back from his forehead and wet his lips .
" How come I have debts , sir ? "
Carrin explained carefully .
About the things a family needed for civilized living , and the cost of those items .
How they had to be paid .
How it was customary for a son to take on a part of his parent 's debt , when he came of age .
Billy 's silence annoyed him .
It was almost as if the boy were reproaching him .
After he had slaved for years to give the ungrateful whelp every luxury !
" Son , " he said harshly , " have you studied history in school ?
Good .
Then you know how it was in the past .
Wars .
How would you like to get blown up in a war ? "
The boy did n't answer .
" Or how would you like to break your back for eight hours a day , doing work a machine should handle ?
Or be hungry all the time ?
Or cold , with the rain beating down on you , and no place to sleep ? "
He paused for a response , got none and went on .
" You live in the most fortunate age mankind has ever known .
You are surrounded by every wonder of art and science .
The finest music , the greatest books and art , all at your fingertips .
All you have to do is push a button . "
He shifted to a kindlier tone .
" Well , what are you thinking ? "
" I was just wondering how I could go to Mars , " the boy said .
" With the debt , I mean .
I do n't suppose I could get away from that . "
" Of course not . "
" Unless I stowed away on a rocket . "
" But you would n't do that . "
" No , of course not , " the boy said , but his tone lacked conviction .
" You 'll stay here and marry a very nice girl , " Leela told him .
" Sure I will , " Billy said .
" Sure . "
He grinned suddenly .
" I did n't mean any of that stuff about going to Mars .
I really did n't . "
" I 'm glad of that , " Leela answered .
" Just forget I mentioned it , " Billy said , smiling stiffly .
He stood up and raced upstairs .
" Probably gone to play with his rockets , " Leela said .
" He 's such a little devil . "
The Carrins ate a quiet supper , and then it was time for Mr. Carrin to go to work .
He was on night shift this month .
He kissed his wife good - by , climbed into his Jet - lash and roared to the factory .
The automatic gates recognized him and opened .
He parked and walked in .
Automatic lathes , automatic presses - everything was automatic .
The factory was huge and bright , and the machines hummed softly to themselves , doing their job and doing it well .
Carrin walked to the end of the automatic washing machine assembly line , to relieve the man there .
" Everything all right ? "
he asked .
" Sure , " the man said .
" Have n't had a bad one all year .
These new models here have built - in voices .
They do n't light up like the old ones . "
Carrin sat down where the man had sat and waited for the first washing machine to come through .
His job was the soul of simplicity .
He just sat there and the machines went by him .
He pressed a button on them and found out if they were all right .
They always were .
After passing him , the washing machines went to the packaging section .
The first one slid by on the long slide of rollers .
He pressed the starting button on the side .
" Ready for the wash , " the washing machine said .
Carrin pressed the release and let it go by .
That boy of his , Carrin thought .
Would he grow up and face his responsibilities ?
Would he mature and take his place in society ?
Carrin doubted it .
The boy was a born rebel .
If anyone got to Mars , it would be his kid .
But the thought did n't especially disturb him .
" Ready for the wash . " Another machine went by .
Carrin remembered something about Miller .
The jovial man had always been talking about the planets , always kidding about going off somewhere and roughing it .
He had n't , though .
He 'd committed suicide .
" Ready for the wash . " Carrin had eight hours in front of him , and he loosened his belt to prepare for it .
Eight hours of pushing buttons and listening to a machine announce its readiness .
" Ready for the wash . " He pressed the release .
" Ready for the wash . " Carrin 's mind strayed from the job , which did n't need much attention in any case .
He wished he had done what he had longed to do as a youngster .
It would have been great to be a rocket pilot , to push a button and go to Mars .
Despite Mr. Shakespeare , wealth and name are both dross compared with the theft of hope - and Maxwell had to rob a whole planet of it !
Standing at the armor - glass front of the observation deck and watching the mountains rise and grow on the horizon , Conn Maxwell gripped the metal hand - rail with painful intensity , as though trying to hold back the airship by force .
Thirty minutes - twenty - six and a fraction of the Terran minutes he had become accustomed to - until he 'd have to face it .
Then , realizing that he never , in his own thoughts , addressed himself as " sir , " he turned .
" I beg your pardon ? "
It was the first officer , wearing a Terran Federation Space Navy uniform of forty years , or about ten regulation - changes , ago .
That was the sort of thing he had taken for granted before he had gone away .
Now he was noticing it everywhere .
" Thirty minutes out of Litchfield , sir , " the ship 's officer repeated .
" You 'll go off by the midship gangway on the starboard side . "
" Yes , I know .
Thank you . "
The first mate held out the clipboard he was carrying .
" Would you mind checking over this , Mr. Maxwell ?
Your baggage list . "
" Certainly . "
He glanced at the slip of paper .
Valises , eighteen and twenty - five kilos , two ; trunks , seventy - five and seventy kilos , two ; microbook case , one - fifty kilos , one .
The last item fanned up a little flicker of anger in him , not at any person , even himself , but at the situation in which he found himself and the futility of the whole thing .
" Yes , that 's everything .
I have no hand - luggage , just this stuff . "
He noticed that this was the only baggage list under the clip ; the other papers were all freight and express manifests .
" Not many passengers left aboard , are there ? "
" You 're the only one in first - class , sir , " the mate replied .
" About forty farm - laborers on the lower deck .
Everybody else got off at the other stops .
Litchfield 's the end of the run .
You know anything about the place ? "
" I was born there .
I 've been away at school for the last five years . "
" On Baldur ? "
" Terra .
University of Montevideo . "
Once Conn would have said it almost boastfully .
The mate gave him a quick look of surprised respect , then grinned and nodded .
" Of course ; I should have known .
You 're Rodney Maxwell 's son , are n't you ?
Your father 's one of our regular freight shippers .
Been sending out a lot of stuff lately . "
He looked as though he would have liked to continue the conversation , but said : " Sorry , I 've got to go .
Lot of things to attend to before landing . "
He touched the visor of his cap and turned away .
The mountains were closer when Conn looked forward again , and he glanced down .
Five years and two space voyages ago , seen from the afterdeck of this ship or one of her sisters , the woods had been green with new foliage , and the wine - melon fields had been in pink blossom .
He tried to picture the scene sliding away below instead of drawing in toward him , as though to force himself back to a moment of the irretrievable past .
But the moment was gone , and with it the eager excitement and the half - formed anticipations of the things he would learn and accomplish on Terra .
The things he would learn - microbook case , one - fifty kilos , one .
One of the steel trunks was full of things he had learned and accomplished , too .
Maybe they , at least , had some value ....
The woods were autumn - tinted now and the fields were bare and brown .
They had gotten the crop in early this year , for the fields had all been harvested .
Those workers below must be going out for the wine - pressing .
That extra hands were needed for that meant a big crop , and yet it seemed that less land was under cultivation than when he had gone away .
He could see squares of low brush among the new forests that had grown up in the last forty years , and the few stands of original timber looked like hills above the second growth .
Those trees had been standing when the planet had been colonized .
That had been two hundred years ago , at the middle of the Seventh Century , Atomic Era .
The name of the planet - Poictesme - told that : the Surromanticist Movement , when the critics and professors were rediscovering James Branch Cabell .
Funny how much was coming back to him now - things he had picked up from the minimal liberal - arts and general - humanities courses he had taken and then forgotten in his absorption with the science and tech studies .
The first extrasolar planets , as they had been discovered , had been named from Norse mythology - Odin and Baldur and Thor , Uller and Freya , Bifrost and Asgard and Niflheim .
When the Norse names ran out , the discoverers had turned to other mythologies , Celtic and Egyptian and Hindu and Assyrian , and by the middle of the Seventh Century they were naming planets for almost anything .
Anything , that is , but actual persons ; their names were reserved for stars .
Like Alpha Gartner , the sun of Poictesme , and Beta Gartner , a buckshot - sized pink glow in the southeast , and Gamma Gartner , out of sight on the other side of the world , all named for old Genji Gartner , the scholarly and half - piratical adventurer whose ship had been the first to approach the three stars and discover that each of them had planets .
Forty - two planets in all , from a couple of methane - giants on Gamma to airless little things with one - sixth Terran gravity .
Alpha II had been the only one in the Trisystem with an oxygen atmosphere and life .
So Gartner had landed on it , and named it Poictesme , and the settlement that had grown up around the first landing site had been called Storisende .
Thirty years later , Genji Gartner died there , after seeing the camp grow to a metropolis , and was buried under a massive monument .
Some of the other planets had been rich in metals , and mines had been opened , and atmosphere - domed factories and processing plants built .
None of them could produce anything but hydroponic and tissue - culture foodstuffs , and natural foods from Poictesme had been less expensive , even on the planets of Gamma and Beta .
So Poictesme had concentrated on agriculture and grown wealthy at it .
Then , within fifty years of Genji Gartner 's death , the economics of interstellar trade overtook the Trisystem and the mines and factories closed down .
It was no longer possible to ship the output to a profitable market , in the face of the growing self - sufficiency of the colonial planets and the irreducibly high cost of space - freighting .
Below , the brown fields and the red and yellow woods were merging into a ten - mile - square desert of crumbling concrete - empty and roofless sheds and warehouses and barracks , brush - choked parade grounds and landing fields , airship docks , and even a spaceport .
They were more recent , dating from Poictesme 's second brief and hectic prosperity , when the Terran Federation 's Third Fleet - Army Force had occupied the Gartner Trisystem during the System States War .
Millions of troops had been stationed on or routed through Poictesme ; tens of thousands of spacecraft had been based on the Trisystem ; the mines and factories had reopened for war production .
The Federation had spent trillions of sols on Poictesme , piled up mountains of stores and arms and equipment , left the face of the planet cluttered with installations .
Then , ten years before anybody had expected it , the rebellious System States Alliance had collapsed and the war had ended .
The Federation armies had gone home , taking with them the clothes they stood in , their personal weapons and a few souvenirs .
Everything else had been left behind ; even the most expensive equipment was worth less than the cost of removal .
Ever since , Poictesme had been living on salvage .
The uniform the first officer was wearing was forty years old - and it was barely a month out of the original packing .
On Terra , Conn had told his friends that his father was a prospector and let them interpret that as meaning an explorer for , say , uranium deposits .
Rodney Maxwell found plenty of uranium , but he got it by taking apart the warheads of missiles .
The old replacement depot or classification center or training area or whatever it had been had vanished under the ship now and it was all forest back to the mountains , with an occasional cluster of deserted buildings .
From one or two , threads of blue smoke rose - bands of farm tramps , camping on their way from harvest to wine - pressing .
Then the eastern foothills were out of sight and he was looking down on the granite spines of the Calder Range ; the valley beyond was sloping away and widening out in the distance , and it was time he began thinking of what to say when he landed .
He would have to tell them , of course .
He wondered who would be at the dock to meet him , besides his family .
Lynne Fawzi , he hoped .
Or did he ?
Her parents would be with her , and Kurt Fawzi would take the news hardest of any of them , and be the first to blame him because it was bad .
The hopes he had built for Lynne and himself would have to be held in abeyance till he saw how her father would regard him now .
But however any of them took it , he would have to tell them the truth .
The ship swept on , tearing through the thin puffs of cloud at ten miles a minute .
Six minutes to landing .
Five .
Four .
Then he saw the river bend , glinting redly through the haze in the sunlight ; Litchfield was inside it , and he stared waiting for the first glimpse of the city .
Three minutes , and the ship began to cut speed and lose altitude .
The hot - jets had stopped firing and he could hear the whine of the cold - jet rotors .
Then he could see Litchfield , dominated by the Airport Building , so thick that it looked squat for all its height , like a candle - stump in a puddle of its own grease , the other buildings under their carapace of terraces and landing stages seeming to have flowed away from it .
And there was the yellow block of the distilleries , and High Garden Terrace , and the Mall .... At first , in the distance , it looked like a living city .
Then , second by second , the stigmata of decay became more and more evident .
Terraces empty or littered with rubbish ; gardens untended and choked with wild growth ; windows staring blindly ; walls splotched with lichens and grimy where the rains could not wash them .
For a moment , he was afraid that some disaster , unmentioned in his father 's letters , had befallen .
Then he realized that the change had not been in Litchfield but in himself .
After five years , he was seeing it as it really was .
He wondered how his family and his friends would look to him now .
Or Lynne .
The ship was coming in over the Mall ; he could see the cracked paving sprouting grass , the statues askew on their pedestals , the waterless fountains .
He thought for an instant that one of them was playing , and then he saw that what he had taken for spray was dust blowing from the empty basin .
There was something about dusty fountains , something he had learned at the University .
Oh , yes .
One of the Second Century Martian Colonial poets , Eirrarsson , or somebody like that : The fountains are dusty in the Graveyard of Dreams ; The hinges are rusty and swing with tiny screams .
There was more to it , but he could n't remember ; something about empty gardens under an empty sky .
There must have been colonies inside the Sol System , before the Interstellar Era , that had n't turned out any better than Poictesme .
Then he stopped trying to remember as the ship turned toward the Airport Building and a couple of tugs - Terran Federation contragravity tanks , with derrick - booms behind and push - poles where the guns had been - came up to bring her down .
He walked along the starboard promenade to the gangway , which the first mate and a couple of airmen were getting open .
Most of the population of top - level Litchfield was in the crowd on the dock .
He recognized old Colonel Zareff , with his white hair and plum - brown skin , and Tom Brangwyn , the town marshal , red - faced and bulking above the others .
It took a few seconds for him to pick out his father and mother , and his sister Flora , and then to realize that the handsome young man beside Flora was his brother Charley .
Charley had been thirteen when Conn had gone away .
And there was Kurt Fawzi , the mayor of Litchfield , and there was Lynne , beside him , her red - lipped face tilted upward with a cloud of bright hair behind it .
He waved to her , and she waved back , jumping in excitement , and then everybody was waving , and they were pushing his family to the front and making way for them .
The ship touched down lightly and gave a lurch as she went off contragravity , and they got the gangway open and the steps swung out , and he started down toward the people who had gathered to greet him .
His father was wearing the same black best - suit he had worn when they had parted five years ago .
It had been new then ; now it was shabby and had acquired a permanent wrinkle across the right hip , over the pistol - butt .
Charley was carrying a gun , too ; the belt and holster looked as though he had made them himself .
His mother 's dress was new and so was Flora 's - probably made for the occasion .
He could n't be sure just which of the Terran Federation services had provided the material , but Charley 's shirt was Medical Service sterilon .
Ashamed that he was noticing and thinking of such things at a time like this , he clasped his father 's hand and kissed his mother and Flora .
Everybody was talking at once , saying things that he heard only as happy sounds .
His brother 's words were the first that penetrated as words .
" You did n't know me , " Charley was accusing .
" Do n't deny it ; I saw you standing there wondering if I was Flora 's new boy friend or what . "
" Well , how in Niflheim'd you expect me to ?
You 've grown up since the last time I saw you .
You 're looking great , kid ! "
He caught the gleam of Lynne 's golden hair beyond Charley 's shoulder and pushed him gently aside .
" Lynne ! "
" Conn , you look just wonderful ! "
Her arms were around his neck and she was kissing him .
" Am I still your girl , Conn ? "
He crushed her against him and returned her kisses , assuring her that she was .
He was n't going to let it make a bit of difference how her father took the news - if she did n't .
She babbled on : " You did n't get mixed up with any of those girls on Terra , did you ?
If you did , do n't tell me about it .
All I care about is that you 're back .
Oh , Conn , you do n't know how much I missed you ...
Mother , Dad , does n't he look just splendid ? "
Kurt Fawzi , a little thinner , his face more wrinkled , his hair grayer , shook his hand .
" I 'm just as glad to see you as anybody , Conn , " he said , " even if I 'm not being as demonstrative about it as Lynne .
Judge , what do you think of our returned wanderer ?
Franz , shake hands with him , but save the interview for the News for later .
Professor , here 's one student Litchfield Academy wo n't need to be ashamed of . "
He shook hands with them - old Judge Ledue ; Franz Veltrin , the newsman ; Professor Kellton ; a dozen others , some of whom he had not thought of in five years .
They were all cordial and happy - how much , he wondered , because he was their neighbor , Conn Maxwell , Rodney Maxwell 's son , home from Terra , and how much because of what they hoped he would tell them ?
Kurt Fawzi , edging him out of the crowd , was the first to voice that .
" Conn , what did you find out ? "
he asked breathlessly .
" Do you know where it is ? "
Conn hesitated , looking about desperately ; this was no time to start talking to Kurt Fawzi about it .
His father was turning toward him from one side , and from the other Tom Brangwyn and Colonel Zareff were approaching more slowly , the older man leaning on a silver - headed cane .
" Do n't bother him about it now , Kurt , " Rodney Maxwell scolded the mayor .
" He 's just gotten off the ship ; he has n't had time to say hello to everybody yet . "
" But , Rod , I 've been waiting to hear what he 's found out ever since he went away , " Fawzi protested in a hurt tone .
Brangwyn and Colonel Zareff joined them .
They were close friends , probably because neither of them was a native of Poictesme .
The town marshal had always been reticent about his origins , but Conn guessed it was Hathor .
Brangwyn 's heavy - muscled body , and his ease and grace in handling it , marked him as a man of a high - gravity planet .
Besides , Hathor had a permanent cloud - envelope , and Tom Brangwyn 's skin had turned boiled - lobster red under the dim orange sunlight of Alpha Gartner .
Old Klem Zareff never hesitated to tell anybody where he came from - he was from Ashmodai , one of the System States planets , and he had commanded a division that had been blasted down to about regimental strength , in the Alliance army .
" Hello , boy , " he croaked , extending a trembling hand .
" Glad you 're home .
We all missed you . "
" We sure did , Conn , " the town marshal agreed , clasping Conn 's hand as soon as the old man had released it .
" Find out anything definite ? "
Kurt Fawzi looked at his watch .
" Conn , we 've planned a little celebration for you .
We only had since day before yesterday , when the spaceship came into radio range , but we 're having a dinner party for you at Senta 's this evening . "
" You could n't have done anything I 'd have liked better , Mr. Fawzi .
I 'd have to have a meal at Senta 's before really feeling that I 'd come home . "
" Well , here 's what I have in mind .
It 'll be three hours till dinner 's ready .
Suppose we all go up to my office in the meantime .
It 'll give the ladies a chance to go home and fix up for the party , and we can have a drink and a talk . "
" You want to do that , Conn ? "
his father asked , a trifle doubtfully .
" If you 'd rather go home first ... " Something in his father 's voice and manner disturbed him vaguely ; however , he nodded agreement .
After a couple of drinks , he 'd be better able to tell them .
" Yes , indeed , Mr. Fawzi , " Conn said .
" I know you 're all anxious , but it 's a long story .
This 'll be a good chance to tell you . "
Fawzi turned to his wife and daughter , interrupting himself to shout instructions to a couple of dockhands who were floating the baggage off the ship on a contragravity - lifter .
Conn 's father had sent Charley off with a message to his mother and Flora .
Conn turned to Colonel Zareff .
" I noticed extra workers coming out from the hiring agencies in Storisende , and the crop was all in across the Calders .
Big wine - pressing this year ? "
" Yes , we 're up to our necks in melons , " the old planter grumbled .
" Gehenna of a big crop .
Price'll drop like a brick of collapsium , and this time next year we 'll be using brandy to wash our feet in . "
" If you ca n't get good prices , hang onto it and age it .
I wish you could see what the bars on Terra charge for a drink of ten - year - old Poictesme . "
" This is n't Terra and we are n't selling it by the drink .
Only place we can sell brandy is at Storisende spaceport , and we have to take what the trading - ship captains offer .
You 've been on a rich planet for the last five years , Conn. You 've forgotten what it 's like to live in a poorhouse .
And that 's what Poictesme is . "
" Things'll be better from now on , Klem , " the mayor said , putting one hand on the old man 's shoulder and the other on Conn 's .
" Our boy 's home .
With what he can tell us , we 'll be able to solve all our problems .
Come on , let 's go up and hear about it . "
They entered the wide doorway of the warehouse on the dock - level floor of the Airport Building and crossed to the lift .
About a dozen others had joined them , all the important men of Litchfield .
Inside , Kurt Fawzi 's laborers were floating out cargo for the ship - casks of brandy , of course , and a lot of boxes and crates painted light blue and marked with the wreathed globe of the Terran Federation and the gold triangle of the Third Fleet - Army Force and the eight - pointed red star of Ordnance Service .
Long cases of rifles , square boxes of ammunition , machine guns , crated auto - cannon and rockets .
" Where 'd that stuff come from ? "
Conn asked his father .
" You dig it up ? "
His father chuckled .
" That happened since the last time I wrote you .
Remember the big underground headquarters complex in the Calders ?
Everybody thought it had been all cleaned out years ago .
You know , it 's never a mistake to take a second look at anything that everybody believes .
I found a lot of sealed - off sections over there that had never been entered .
This stuff 's from one of the headquarters defense armories .
I have a gang getting the stuff out .
Charley and I flew in after lunch , and I 'm going back the first thing tomorrow . "
" But there 's enough combat equipment on hand to outfit a private army for every man , woman and child on Poictesme ! "
Conn objected .
" Where are we going to sell this ? "
" Storisende spaceport .
The tramp freighters are buying it for newly colonized planets that have n't been industrialized yet .
They do n't pay much , but it does n't cost much to get it out , and I 've been clearing about three hundred sols a ton on the spaceport docks .
That 's not bad , you know . "
Three hundred sols a ton .
A lifter went by stacked with cases of M - 504 submachine guns .
Unloaded , one of them weighed six pounds , and even a used one was worth a hundred sols .
Conn started to say something about that , but then they came to the lift and were crowding onto it .
He had been in Kurt Fawzi 's office a few times , always with his father , and he remembered it as a dim , quiet place of genteel conviviality and rambling conversations , with deep , comfortable chairs and many ashtrays .
Fawzi 's warehouse and brokerage business , and the airline agency , and the government , such as it was , of Litchfield , combined , made few demands on his time and did not prevent the office from being a favored loafing center for the town 's elders .
The lights were bright only over the big table that served , among other things , as a desk , and the walls were almost invisible in the shadows .
As they came down the hallway from the lift , everybody had begun speaking more softly .
Voices were never loud or excited in Kurt Fawzi 's office .
Tom Brangwyn went to the table , taking off his belt and holster and laying his pistol aside .
The others , crowding into the room , added their weapons to his .
That was something else Conn was seeing with new eyes .
It had been five years since he had carried a gun and he was wondering why any of them bothered .
A gun was what a boy put on to show that he had reached manhood , and a man carried for the rest of his life out of habit .
Why , there would n't be a shooting a year in Litchfield , if you did n't count the farm tramps and drifters , who kept to the lower level or camped in the empty buildings at the edge of town .
Or maybe that was it ; maybe Litchfield was peaceful because everybody was armed .
It certainly was n't because of anything the Planetary Government at Storisende did to maintain order .
After divesting himself of his gun , Tom Brangwyn took over the bartending , getting out glasses and filling a pitcher of brandy from a keg in the corner .
" Everybody supplied ? "
Fawzi was asking .
" Well , let 's drink to our returned emissary .
We 're all anxious to hear what you found out , Conn. Gentlemen , here 's to our friend Conn Maxwell .
Welcome home , Conn ! "
" Well , it 's wonderful to be back , Mr. Fawzi - " " No , let 's not have any of this mister foolishness !
You 're one of the gang now .
And drink up , everybody .
We have plenty of brandy , even if we do n't have anything else . "
" You telling us , Kurt ? "
somebody demanded .
One of the distillery company ; the name would come back to Conn in a moment .
" When this crop gets pressed and fermented - " " When I start pressing , I do n't know where in Gehenna I 'm going to vat the stuff till it ferments , " Colonel Zareff said .
" Or why .
You wo n't be able to handle all of it . "
" Now , now ! "
Fawzi reproved .
" Let 's not start moaning about our troubles .
Not the day Conn 's come home .
Not when he 's going to tell us how to find the Third Fleet - Army Force Brain . "
" You did find out where the Brain is , did n't you , Conn ? "
Brangwyn asked anxiously .
That set half a dozen of them off at once .
They had all sat down after the toast ; now they were fidgeting in their chairs , leaning forward , looking at Conn fixedly .
" What did you find out , Conn ? "
" It 's still here on Poictesme , is n't it ? "
" Did you find out where it is ? "
He wanted to tell them in one quick sentence and get it over with .
He could n't , any more than he could force himself to squeeze the trigger of a pistol he knew would blow up in his hand .
" Wait a minute , gentlemen . "
He finished the brandy , and held out the glass to Tom Brangwyn , nodding toward the pitcher .
Even the first drink had warmed him and he could feel the constriction easing in his throat and the lump at the pit of his stomach dissolving .
" I hope none of you expect me to spread out a map and show you the cross on it , where the Brain is .
I ca n't .
I ca n't even give the approximate location of the thing . "
Much of the happy eagerness drained out of the faces around him .
Some of them were looking troubled ; Colonel Zareff was gnawing the bottom of his mustache , and Judge Ledue 's hand shook as he tried to relight his cigar .
Conn stole a quick side - glance at his father ; Rodney Maxwell was watching him curiously , as though wondering what he was going to say next .
" But it is still here on Poictesme ? "
Fawzi questioned .
" They did n't take it away when they evacuated , did they ? "
Conn finished his second drink .
This time he picked up the pitcher and refilled for himself .
" I 'm going to have to do a lot of talking , " he said , " and it 's going to be thirsty work .
I 'll have to tell you the whole thing from the beginning , and if you start asking questions at random , you 'll get me mixed up and I 'll miss the important points . "
" By all means ! "
Judge Ledue told him .
" Give it in your own words , in what you think is the proper order . "
" Thank you , Judge . "
Conn drank some more brandy , hoping he could get his courage up without getting drunk .
After all , they had a right to a full report ; all of them had contributed something toward sending him to Terra .
" The main purpose in my going to the University was to learn computer theory and practice .
It would n't do any good for us to find the Brain if none of us are able to use it .
Well , I learned enough to be able to operate , program and service any computer in existence , and train assistants .
During my last year at the University , I had a part - time paid job programming the big positron - neutrino - photon computer in the astrophysics department .
When I graduated , I was offered a position as instructor in positronic computer theory . "
" You never mentioned that in your letters , son , " his father said .
" It was too late for any letter except one that would come on the same ship I did .
Beside , it was n't very important . "
" I think it was . "
There was a catch in old Professor Kellton 's voice .
" One of my boys , from the Academy , offered a place on the faculty of the University of Montevideo , on Terra ! "
He poured himself a second drink , something he almost never did .
" Conn means it was n't important because it did n't have anything to do with the Brain , " Fawzi explained and then looked at Conn expectantly .
All right ; now he 'd tell them .
" I went over all the records of the Third Fleet - Army Force 's occupation of Poictesme that are open to the public .
On one pretext or another , I got permission to examine the non - classified files that are n't open to public examination .
I even got a few peeps at some of the stuff that 's still classified secret .
I have maps and plans of all the installations that were built on this planet - literally thousands of them , many still undiscovered .
Why , we have n't more than scratched the surface of what the Federation left behind here .
For instance , all the important installations exist in duplicate , some even in triplicate , as a precaution against Alliance space attack . "
" Space attack ! "
Colonel Zareff was indignant .
" There never was a time when the Alliance could have taken the offensive against Poictesme , even if an offensive outside our own space - area had been part of our policy .
We just did n't have the ships .
It took over a year to move a million and a half troops from Ashmodai to Marduk , and the fleet that was based on Amaterasu was blasted out of existence in the spaceports and in orbit .
Hell , at the time of the surrender , we did n't have - " " They were n't taking chances on that , Colonel .
But the point I want to make is that with everything I did find , I never found , in any official record , a single word about the giant computer we call the Third Fleet - Army Force Brain . "
For a time , the only sound in the room was the tiny insectile humming of the electric clock on the wall .
Then Professor Kellton set his glass on the table , and it sounded like a hammer - blow .
" Nothing , Conn ? "
Kurt Fawzi was incredulous and , for the first time , frightened .
The others were exchanging uneasy glances .
" But you must have !
A thing like that - " " Of course it would be one of the closest secrets during the war , " somebody else said .
" But in forty years , you 'd expect something to leak out . "
" Why , during the war , it was all through the Third Force .
Even the Alliance knew about it ; that 's how Klem heard of it . "
" Well , Conn could n't just walk into the secret files and read whatever he wanted to .
Just because he could n't find anything - " " Do n't tell me about security ! "
Klem Zareff snorted .
" Certainly they still have it classified ; staff - brass'd rather lose an eye than declassify anything .
If you 'd seen the lengths our staff went to - hell , we lost battles because the staff would n't release information the troops in the field needed .
I remember once - " " But there was a Brain , " Judge Ledue was saying , to reassure himself and draw agreement from the others .
" It was capable of combining data , and scanning and evaluating all its positronic memories , and forming association patterns , and reasoning with absolute perfection .
It was more than a positronic brain - it was a positronic super - mind . "
" We 'd have won the war , except for the Brain .
We had ninety systems , a hundred and thirty inhabited planets , a hundred billion people - and we were on the defensive in our own space - area !
Every move we made was known and anticipated by the Federation .
How could they have done that without something like the Brain ? "
" Conn , from what you learned of computers , how large a volume of space would you say the Brain would have to occupy ? "
Professor Kellton asked .
Professor Kellton was the most unworldly of the lot , yet he was asking the most practical question .
" Well , the astrophysics computer I worked with at the University occupies a total of about one million cubic feet , " Conn began .
This was his chance ; they 'd take anything he told them about computers as gospel .
" It was only designed to handle problems in astrophysics .
The Brain , being built for space war , would have to handle any such problem .
And if half the stories about the Brain are anywhere near true , it handled any other problem - mathematical , scientific , political , economic , strategic , psychological , even philosophical and ethical .
Well , I 'd say that a hundred million cubic feet would be the smallest even conceivable . "
They all nodded seriously .
They were willing to accept that - or anything else , except one thing .
" Lot of places on this planet where a thing that size could be hidden , " Tom Brangwyn said , undismayed .
" A planet 's a mighty big place . "
" It could be under water , in one of the seas , " Piet Dawes , the banker , suggested .
" An underwater dome city would n't be any harder to build than a dome city on a poison - atmosphere planet like Tubal - Cain . "
" It might even be on Tubal - Cain , " a melon - planter said .
" Or Hiawatha , or even one of the Beta or Gamma planets .
The Third Force was occupying the whole Trisystem , you know . "
He thought for a moment .
" If I 'd been in charge , I 'd have put it on one of the moons of Pantagruel . "
" But that 's clear out in the Alpha System , " Judge Ledue objected .
" We do n't have a spaceship on the planet , certainly nothing with a hyperdrive engine .
And it would take a lifetime to get out to the Gamma System and back on reaction drive . "
Conn put his empty brandy glass on the table and sat erect .
A new thought had occurred to him , chasing out of his mind all the worries and fears he had brought with him all the way from Terra .
" Then we 'll have to build a ship , " he said calmly .
" I know , when the Federation evacuated Poictesme , they took every hyperdrive ship with them .
But they had plenty of shipyards and spaceports on this planet , and I have maps showing the location of all of them , and barely a third of them have been discovered so far .
I 'm sure we can find enough hulks , and enough hyperfield generator parts , to assemble a ship or two , and I know we 'll find the same or better on some of the other planets .
" And here 's another thing , " he added .
" When we start looking into some of the dome - city plants on Tubal - Cain and Hiawatha and Moruna and Koshchei , we may find the plant or plants where the components for the Brain were fabricated , and if we do , we may find records of where they were shipped , and that 'll be it . "
" You 're right ! "
Professor Kellton cried , quivering with excitement .
" We 've been hunting at random for the Brain , so it would only be an accident if we found it .
We 'll have to do this systematically , and with Conn to help us - Conn , why not build a computer ?
I do n't mean another Brain ; I mean a computer to help us find the Brain . "
" We can , but we may not even need to build one .
When we get out to the industrial planets , we may find one ready except for perhaps some minor alterations . "
" But how are we going to finance all this ? "
Klem Zareff demanded querulously .
" We 're poorer than snakes , and even one hyperdrive ship 's going to cost like Gehenna . "
" I 've been thinking about that , Klem , " Fawzi said .
" If we can find material at these shipyards Conn knows about , most of our expense will be labor .
Well , have n't we ten workmen competing for every job ?
They do n't really need money , only the things money can buy .
We can raise food on the farms and provide whatever else they need out of Federation supplies . "
" Sure .
As soon as it gets around that we 're really trying to do something about this , everybody'll want in on it , " Tom Brangwyn predicted .
" And I have no doubt that the Planetary Government at Storisende will give us assistance , once we show that this is a practical and productive enterprise , " Judge Ledue put in .
" I have some slight influence with the President and - " " I 'm not too sure we want the Government getting into this , " Kurt Fawzi replied .
" Give them half a chance and that gang at Storisende'll squeeze us right out . "
" We can handle this ourselves , " Brangwyn agreed .
" And when we get some kind of a ship and get out to the other two systems , or even just to Tubal - Cain or Hiawatha , first thing you know , we 'll be the Planetary Government . "
" Well , now , Tom , " Fawzi began piously , " the Brain is too big a thing for a few of us to try to monopolize ; it 'll be for all Poictesme .
Of course , it 's only proper that we , who are making the effort to locate it , should have the direction of that effort .... " While Fawzi was talking , Rodney Maxwell went to the table , rummaged his pistol out of the pile and buckled it on .
The mayor stopped short .
" You leaving us , Rod ? "
" Yes , it 's getting late .
Conn and I are going for a little walk ; we 'll be at Senta 's in half an hour .
The fresh air will do both of us good and we have a lot to talk about .
After all , we have n't seen each other for over five years . "
They were silent , however , until they were away from the Airport Building and walking along High Garden Terrace in the direction of the Mall .
Conn was glad ; his own thoughts were weighing too heavily within him : I did n't do it .
I was going to do it ; every minute , I was going to do it , and I did n't , and now it 's too late .
" That was quite a talk you gave them , son , " his father said .
" They believed every word of it .
A couple of times , I even caught myself starting to believe it . "
Conn stopped short .
His father stopped beside him and stood looking at him .
" Why did n't you tell them the truth ? "
Rodney Maxwell asked .
The question angered Conn.
It was what he had been asking himself .
" Why did n't I just grab a couple of pistols off the table and shoot the lot of them ? "
he retorted .
" It would have killed them quicker and would n't have hurt as much . "
His father took the cigar from his mouth and inspected the tip of it .
" The truth must be pretty bad then .
There is no Brain .
Is that it , son ? "
" There never was one .
I 'm not saying that only because I know it would be impossible to build such a computer .
I 'm telling you what the one man in the Galaxy who ought to know told me - the man who commanded the Third Force during the War . "
" Foxx Travis !
I did n't know he was still alive .
You actually talked to him ? "
" Yes .
He 's on Luna , keeping himself alive at low gravity .
It took me a couple of years , and I was afraid he 'd die before I got to him , but I finally managed to see him . "
" What did he tell you ? "
" That no such thing as the Brain ever existed . "
They started walking again , more slowly , toward the far edge of the terrace , with the sky red and orange in front of them .
" The story was all through the Third Force , but it was just one of those wild tales that get started , nobody knows how , among troops .
The High Command never denied or even discouraged it .
It helped morale , and letting it leak to the enemy was good psychological warfare . "
" Klem Zareff says that everybody in the Alliance army heard of the Brain , " his father said .
" That was why he came here in the first place . "
He puffed thoughtfully on his cigar .
" You said a computer like the Brain would be an impossibility .
Why ?
Would n't it be just another computer , only a lot bigger and a lot smarter ? "
" Dad , computermen do n't like to hear computers called smart , " Conn said .
" They are n't .
The people who build them are smart ; a computer only knows what 's fed to it .
They can hold more information in their banks than a man can in his memory , they can combine it faster , they do n't get tired or absent - minded .
But they ca n't imagine , they ca n't create , and they ca n't do anything a human brain ca n't . "
" You know , I 'd wondered about just that , " said his father .
" And none of the histories of the War even as much as mentioned the Brain .
And I could n't see why , after the War , they did n't build dozens of them to handle all these Galactic political and economic problems that nobody seems able to solve .
A thing like the Brain would n't only be useful for war ; the people here are n't trying to find it for war purposes . "
" You did n't mention any of these doubts to the others , did you ? "
" They were just doubts .
You knew for sure , and you could n't tell them . "
" I 'd come home intending to - tell them there was no Brain , tell them to stop wasting their time hunting for it and start trying to figure out the answers themselves .
But I could n't .
They do n't believe in the Brain as a tool , to use ; it 's a machine god that they can bring all their troubles to .
You ca n't take a thing like that away from people without giving them something better . "
" I noticed you suggested building a spaceship and agreed with the professor about building a computer .
What was your idea ?
To take their minds off hunting for the Brain and keep them busy ? "
Conn shook his head .
" I 'm serious about the ship - ships .
You and Colonel Zareff gave me that idea . "
His father looked at him in surprise .
" I never said a word in there , and Klem did n't even once mention - " " Not in Kurt 's office ; before we went up from the docks .
There was Klem , moaning about a good year for melons as though it were a plague , and you selling arms and ammunition by the ton .
Why , on Terra or Baldur or Uller , a glass of our brandy brings more than these freighter - captains give us for a cask , and what do you think a colonist on Agramma , or Sekht , or Hachiman , who has to fight for his life against savages and wild animals , would pay for one of those rifles and a thousand rounds of ammunition ? "
His father objected .
" We ca n't base the whole economy of a planet on brandy .
Only about ten per cent of the arable land on Poictesme will grow wine - melons .
And if we start exporting Federation salvage the way you talk of , we 'll be selling pieces instead of job lots .
We 'll net more , but - " " That 's just to get us started .
The ships will be used , after that , to get to Tubal - Cain and Hiawatha and the planets of the Beta and Gamma Systems .
What I want to see is the mines and factories reopened , people employed , wealth being produced . "
" And where 'll we sell what we produce ?
Remember , the mines closed down because there was no more market . "
" No more interstellar market , that 's true .
But there are a hundred and fifty million people on Poictesme .
That 's a big enough market and a big enough labor force to exploit the wealth of the Gartner Trisystem .
We can have prosperity for everybody on our own resources .
Just what do we need that we have to get from outside now ? "
His father stopped again and sat down on the edge of a fountain - the same one , possibly , from which Conn had seen dust blowing as the airship had been coming in .
" Conn , that 's a dangerous idea .
That was what brought on the System States War .
The Alliance planets took themselves outside the Federation economic orbit and the Federation crushed them . "
Conn swore impatiently .
" You 've been listening to old Klem Zareff ranting about the Lost Cause and the greedy Terran robber barons holding the Galaxy in economic serfdom while they piled up profits .
The Federation did n't fight that war for profits ; there were n't any profits to fight for .
They fought it because if the System States had won , half of them would be at war among themselves now .
Make no mistake about it , politically I 'm all for the Federation .
But economically , I want to see our people exploiting their own resources for themselves , instead of grieving about lost interstellar trade , and bewailing bumper crops , and searching for a mythical robot god . "
" You think , if you can get something like that started , that they 'll forget about the Brain ? "
his father asked skeptically .
" That crowd up in Kurt Fawzi 's office ?
Niflheim , no !
They 'll go on hunting for the Brain as long as they live , and every day they 'll be expecting to find it tomorrow .
That 'll keep them happy .
But they 're all old men .
The ones I 'm interested in are the boys of Charley 's age .
I 'm going to give them too many real things to do - building ships , exploring the rest of the Trisystem , opening mines and factories , producing wealth - for them to get caught in that empty old dream . "
He looked down at the dusty fountain on which his father sat .
" That ghost - dream haunts this graveyard .
I want to give them living dreams that they can make come true . "
Conn 's father sat in silence for a while , his cigar smoke red in the sunset .
" If you can do all that , Conn .... You know , I believe you can .
I 'm with you , as far as I can help , and we 'll have a talk with Charley .
He 's a good boy , Conn , and he has a lot of influence among the other youngsters . "
He looked at his watch .
" We 'd better be getting along .
You do n't want to be late for your own coming - home party . "
Rodney Maxwell slid off the edge of the fountain to his feet , hitching at the gunbelt under his coat .
Have to dig out his own gun and start wearing it , Conn thought .
A man simply did n't go around in public without a gun in Litchfield .
It was n't decent .
And he 'd be spending a lot of time out in the brush , where he 'd really need one .
First thing in the morning , he 'd unpack that trunk and go over all those maps .
There were half a dozen spaceports and maintenance shops and shipyards within a half - day by airboat , none of which had been looted .
He 'd look them all over ; that would take a couple of weeks .
Pick the best shipyard and concentrate on it .
Kurt Fawzi'd be the man to recruit labor .
Professor Kellton was a scholar , not a scientist .
He did n't know beans about hyperdrive engines , but he knew how to do library research .
They came to the edge of High Garden Terrace at the escalator , long motionless , its moving parts rusted fast , that led down to the Mall , and at the bottom of it was Senta 's , the tables under the open sky .
A crowd was already gathering .
There was Tom Brangwyn , and there was Kurt Fawzi and his wife , and Lynne .
And there was Senta herself , fat and dumpy , in one of her preposterous red - and - purple dresses , bustling about , bubbling happily one moment and screaming invective at some laggard waiter the next .
The dinner , Conn knew , would be the best he had eaten in five years , and afterward they would sit in the dim glow of Beta Gartner , sipping coffee and liqueurs , smoking and talking and visiting back and forth from one table to another , as they always did in the evenings at Senta 's .
Another bit from Eirrarsson 's poem came back to him : We sit in the twilight , the shadows among , And we talk of the happy days when we were brave and young .
That was for the old ones , for Colonel Zareff and Judge Ledue and Dolf Kellton , maybe even for Tom Brangwyn and Franz Veltrin and for his father .
But his brother Charley and the boys of his generation would have a future to talk about .
And so would he , and Lynne Fawzi .
I was shocked this morning when I saw in my newspaper a paragraph announcing his sudden death .
I do not say that the shock was very disagreeable .
One reads a newspaper for the sake of news .
Had I never met James Pethel , belike I should never have heard of him : and my knowledge of his death , coincident with my knowledge that he had existed , would have meant nothing at all to me .
If you learn suddenly that one of your friends is dead , you are wholly distressed .
If the death is that of a mere acquaintance whom you have recently seen , you are disconcerted , pricked is your sense of mortality ; but you do find great solace in telling other people that you met " the poor fellow " only the other day , and that he was " so full of life and spirits , " and that you remember he said - whatever you may remember of his sayings .
If the death is that of a mere acquaintance whom you have not seen for years , you are touched so lightly as to find solace enough in even such faded reminiscence as is yours to offer .
Seven years have passed since the day when last I saw James Pethel , and that day was the morrow of my first meeting with him .
I had formed the habit of spending August in Dieppe .
The place was then less overrun by trippers than it is now .
Some pleasant English people shared it with some pleasant French people .
We used rather to resent the race - week - the third week of the month - as an intrusion on our privacy .
We sneered as we read in the Paris edition of " The New York Herald " the names of the intruders , though by some of these we were secretly impressed .
We disliked the nightly crush in the baccarat - room of the casino , and the croupiers ' obvious excitement at the high play .
I made a point of avoiding that room during that week , for the special reason that the sight of serious , habitual gamblers has always filled me with a depression bordering on disgust .
Most of the men , by some subtle stress of their ruling passion , have grown so monstrously fat , and most of the women so harrowingly thin .
The rest of the women seem to be marked out for apoplexy , and the rest of the men to be wasting away .
One feels that anything thrown at them would be either embedded or shattered , and looks vainly among them for one person furnished with a normal amount of flesh .
Monsters they are , all of them , to the eye , though I believe that many of them have excellent moral qualities in private life ; but just as in an American town one goes sooner or later - goes against one 's finer judgment , but somehow goes - into the dime - museum , so year by year , in Dieppe 's race - week , there would be always one evening when I drifted into the baccarat - room .
It was on such an evening that I first saw the man whose memory I here celebrate .
My gaze was held by him for the very reason that he would have passed unnoticed elsewhere .
He was conspicuous not in virtue of the mere fact that he was taking the bank at the principal table , but because there was nothing at all odd about him .
He alone , among his fellow - players , looked as if he were not to die before the year was out .
Of him alone I said to myself that he was destined to die normally at a ripe old age .
Next day , certainly , I would not have made this prediction , would not have " given " him the seven years that were still in store for him , nor the comparatively normal death that has been his .
But now , as I stood opposite to him , behind the croupier , I was refreshed by my sense of his wholesome durability .
Everything about him , except the amount of money he had been winning , seemed moderate .
Just as he was neither fat nor thin , so had his face neither that extreme pallor nor that extreme redness which belongs to the faces of seasoned gamblers : it was just a clear pink .
And his eyes had neither the unnatural brightness nor the unnatural dullness of the eyes about him : they were ordinarily clear eyes , of an ordinary gray .
His very age was moderate : a putative thirty - six , not more .
( " Not less , " I would have said in those days . )
He assumed no air of nonchalance .
He did not deal out the cards as though they bored him , but he had no look of grim concentration .
I noticed that the removal of his cigar from his mouth made never the least difference to his face , for he kept his lips pursed out as steadily as ever when he was not smoking .
And this constant pursing of his lips seemed to denote just a pensive interest .
His bank was nearly done now ; there were only a few cards left .
Opposite to him was a welter of party - colored counters that the croupier had not yet had time to sort out and add to the rouleaux already made ; there were also a fair accumulation of notes and several little stacks of gold - in all , not less than five - hundred pounds , certainly .
Happy banker !
How easily had he won in a few minutes more than I , with utmost pains , could win in many months !
I wished I were he .
His lucre seemed to insult me personally .
I disliked him , and yet I hoped he would not take another bank .
I hoped he would have the good sense to pocket his winnings and go home .
Deliberately to risk the loss of all those riches would intensify the insult to me .
" Messieurs , la banque est aux encheres . "
There was some brisk bidding while the croupier tore open and shuffled two new packs .
But it was as I feared : the gentleman whom I resented kept his place .
" Messieurs , la banque est faite .
Quinze - mille francs a la banque .
Messieurs , les cartes passent .
Messieurs , les cartes passent . "
Turning to go , I encountered a friend , one of the race - weekers , but in a sense a friend .
" Going to play ? "
I asked .
" Not while Jimmy Pethel 's taking the bank , " he answered , with a laugh .
" Is that the man 's name ? "
" Yes .
Do n't you know him ?
I thought every one knew old Jimmy Pethel . "
I asked what there was so wonderful about " old Jimmy Pethel " that every one should be supposed to know him .
" Oh , he 's a great character .
Has extraordinary luck - always . "
I do not think my friend was versed in the pretty theory that good luck is the subconscious wisdom of them who in previous incarnations have been consciously wise .
He was a member of the stock exchange , and I smiled as at a certain quaintness in his remark .
I asked in what ways besides luck the " great character " was manifested .
Oh , well , Pethel had made a huge " scoop " on the stock exchange when he was only twenty - three , and very soon had doubled that and doubled it again ; then retired .
He was n't more than thirty - five now , And then ?
Oh , well , he was a regular all - round sportsman ; had gone after big game all over the world and had a good many narrow shaves .
Great steeple - chaser , too .
Rather settled down now .
Lived in Leicestershire mostly .
Had a big place there .
Hunted five times a week .
Still did an occasional flutter , though .
Cleared eighty - thousand in Mexicans last February .
Wife had been a barmaid at Cambridge ; married her when he was nineteen .
Thing seemed to have turned out quite well .
Altogether , a great character .
Possibly , thought I.
But my cursory friend , accustomed to quick transactions and to things accepted " on the nod , " had not proved his case to my slower , more literary intelligence .
It was to him , though , that I owed , some minutes later , a chance of testing his opinion .
At the cry of " Messieurs , la banque est aux encheres , " we looked round and saw that the subject of our talk was preparing to rise from his place .
" Now one can punt , " said Grierson ( this was my friend 's name ) , and turned to the bureau at which counters are for sale .
" If old Jimmy Pethel punts , " he added , " I shall just follow his luck . "
But this lode - star was not to be .
While my friend was buying his counters , and I was wondering whether I , too , could buy some , Pethel himself came up to the bureau .
With his lips no longer pursed , he had lost his air of gravity , and looked younger .
Behind him was an attendant bearing a big wooden bowl - that plain , but romantic , bowl supplied by the establishment to a banker whose gains are too great to be pocketed .
He and Grierson greeted each other .
He said he had arrived in Dieppe this afternoon , was here for a day or two .
We were introduced .
He spoke to me with empressement , saying he was a " very great admirer " of my work .
I no longer disliked him .
Grierson , armed with counters , had now darted away to secure a place that had just been vacated .
Pethel , with a wave of his hand toward the tables , said : " I suppose you never condescend to this sort of thing . "
" Well - " I smiled indulgently .
" Awful waste of time , " he admitted .
I glanced down at the splendid mess of counters and gold and notes that were now becoming , under the swift fingers of the little man at the bureau , an orderly array .
I did not say aloud that it pleased me to be , and to be seen , talking on terms of equality to a man who had won so much .
I did not say how wonderful it seemed to me that he , whom I had watched just now with awe and with aversion , had all the while been a great admirer of my work .
I did but say , again indulgently , that I supposed baccarat to be as good a way of wasting time as another .
" Ah , but you despise us all the same . "
He added that he always envied men who had resources within themselves .
I laughed lightly , to imply that it WAS very pleasant to have such resources , but that I did n't want to boast .
And , indeed , I had never felt humbler , flimsier , than when the little man at the bureau , naming a fabulous sum , asked its owner whether he would take the main part in notes of mille francs , cinq - mille , dix - mille - quoi ?
Had it been mine , I should have asked to have it all in five - franc pieces .
Pethel took it in the most compendious form , and crumpled it into his pocket .
I asked if he were going to play any more to - night .
" Oh , later on , " he said .
" I want to get a little sea air into my lungs now . "
He asked , with a sort of breezy diffidence , if I would go with him .
I was glad to do so .
It flashed across my mind that yonder on the terrace he might suddenly blurt out : " I say , look here , do n't think me awfully impertinent , but this money 's no earthly use to me .
I do wish you 'd accept it as a very small return for all the pleasure your work has given me , and - There , PLEASE !
Not another word ! "
- all with such candor , delicacy , and genuine zeal that I should be unable to refuse .
But I must not raise false hopes in my reader .
Nothing of the sort happened .
Nothing of that sort ever does happen .
We were not long on the terrace .
It was not a night on which you could stroll and talk ; there was a wind against which you had to stagger , holding your hat on tightly , and shouting such remarks as might occur to you .
Against that wind acquaintance could make no headway .
Yet I see now that despite that wind , or , rather , because of it , I ought already to have known Pethel a little better than I did when we presently sat down together inside the cafe of the casino .
There had been a point in our walk , or our stagger , when we paused to lean over the parapet , looking down at the black and driven sea .
And Pethel had shouted that it would be great fun to be out in a sailing - boat to - night , and that at one time he had been very fond of sailing .
As we took our seats in the cafe , he looked about him with boyish interest and pleasure ; then squaring his arms on the little table , he asked me what I would drink .
I protested that I was the host , a position which he , with the quick courtesy of the very rich , yielded to me at once .
I feared he would ask for champagne , and was gladdened by his demand for water .
" Apollinaris , St. Galmier , or what ? "
I asked .
He preferred plain water .
I ventured to warn him that such water was never " safe " in these places .
He said he had often heard that , but would risk it .
I remonstrated , but he was firm .
" Alors , " I told the waiter , " pour Monsieur un verre de l'eau fraiche , et pour moi un demi blonde . "
Pethel asked me to tell him who every one was .
I told him no one was any one in particular , and suggested that we should talk about ourselves .
" You mean , " he laughed , " that you want to know who the devil I am ? "
I assured him that I had often heard of him .
At this he was unaffectedly pleased .
" But , " I added , " it 's always more interesting to hear a man talked about by himself . "
And indeed , since he had NOT handed his winnings over to me , I did hope he would at any rate give me some glimpses into that " great character " of his .
Full though his life had been , he seemed but like a rather clever schoolboy out on a holiday .
I wanted to know more .
" That beer looks good , " he admitted when the waiter came back .
I asked him to change his mind , but he shook his head , raised to his lips the tumbler of water that had been placed before him , and meditatively drank a deep draft .
" I never , " he then said , " touch alcohol of any sort . "
He looked solemn ; but all men do look solemn when they speak of their own habits , whether positive or negative , and no matter how trivial ; and so , though I had really no warrant for not supposing him a reclaimed drunkard , I dared ask him for what reason he abstained .
" When I say I NEVER touch alcohol , " he said hastily , in a tone as of self - defense , " I mean that I do n't touch it often , or , at any rate - well , I never touch it when I 'm gambling , you know .
It - it takes the edge off . "
His tone did make me suspicious .
For a moment I wondered whether he had married the barmaid rather for what she symbolized than for what in herself she was .
But no , surely not ; he had been only nineteen years old .
Nor in any way had he now , this steady , brisk , clear - eyed fellow , the aspect of one who had since fallen .
" The edge off the excitement ? "
I asked .
" Rather .
Of course that sort of excitement seems awfully stupid to YOU ; but - no use denying it - I do like a bit of a flutter , just occasionally , you know .
And one has to be in trim for it .
Suppose a man sat down dead - drunk to a game of chance , what fun would it be for him ?
None .
And it 's only a question of degree .
Soothe yourself ever so little with alcohol , and you do n't get QUITE the full sensation of gambling .
You do lose just a little something of the proper tremors before a coup , the proper throes during a coup , the proper thrill of joy or anguish after a coup .
You 're bound to , you know , " he added , purposely making this bathos when he saw me smiling at the heights to which he had risen .
" And to - night , " I asked , remembering his prosaically pensive demeanor in taking the bank , " were you feeling these throes and thrills to the utmost ? "
He nodded .
" And you 'll feel them again to - night ? "
" I hope so . "
" I wonder you can stay away . "
" Oh , one gets a bit deadened after an hour or so .
One needs to be freshened up .
So long as I do n't bore you - " I laughed , and held out my cigarette - case .
" I rather wonder you smoke , " I murmured , after giving him a light .
" Nicotine 's a sort of drug .
Does n't it soothe you ?
Do n't you lose just a little something of the tremors and things ? "
He looked at me gravely .
" By Jove ! "
he ejaculated , " I never thought of that .
Perhaps you 're right .
' Pon my word , I must think that over . "
I wondered whether he were secretly laughing at me .
Here was a man to whom - so I conceived , with an effort of the imagination - the loss or gain of a few hundred pounds could hardly matter .
I told him I had spoken in jest .
" To give up tobacco might , " I said , " intensify the pleasant agonies of a gambler staking his little all .
But in your case - well , I do n't see where the pleasant agonies come in . "
" You mean because I 'm beastly rich ? "
" Rich , " I amended .
" All depends on what you call rich .
Besides , I 'm not the sort of fellow who 's content with three per cent .
A couple of months ago - I tell you this in confidence - I risked virtually all I had in an Argentine deal . "
" And lost it ? "
" No ; as a matter of fact , I made rather a good thing out of it .
I did rather well last February , too .
But there 's no knowing the future .
A few errors of judgment , a war here , a revolution there , a big strike somewhere else , and - " He blew a jet of smoke from his lips , and then looked at me as at one whom he could trust to feel for him in a crash already come .
My sympathy lagged , and I stuck to the point of my inquiry .
" Meanwhile , " I suggested , " and all the more because you are n't merely a rich man , but also an active taker of big risks , how can these tiny little baccarat risks give you so much emotion ? "
" There you rather have me , " he laughed .
" I 've often wondered at that myself .
I suppose , " he puzzled it out , " I do a good lot of make - believe .
While I 'm playing a game like this game to - night , I IMAGINE the stakes are huge .
And I IMAGINE I have n't another penny in the world . "
" Ah , so that with you it 's always a life - and - death affair ? "
He looked away .
" Oh , no , I do n't say that . "
" Stupid phrase , " I admitted .
" But " - there was yet one point I would put to him - " if you have extraordinary luck always - " " There 's no such thing as luck . "
" No , strictly , I suppose , there is n't .
But if in point of fact you always do win , then - well , surely , perfect luck driveth out fear . "
" Who ever said I always won ? "
he asked sharply .
I waved my hands and said , " Oh , you have the reputation , you know , for extraordinary luck . "
" That is n't the same thing as always winning .
Besides , I HAVEN'T extraordinary luck , never HAVE had .
Good heavens ! "
he exclaimed , " if I thought I had any more chance of winning than of losing , I 'd - I 'd - " " Never again set foot in that baccarat - room to - night , " I soothingly suggested .
" Oh , baccarat be blowed !
I was n't thinking of baccarat .
I was thinking of - oh , lots of things ; baccarat included , yes . "
" What things ? "
I ventured to ask .
" What things ? "
He pushed back his chair .
" Look here , " he said with a laugh , " do n't pretend I have n't been boring your head off with all this talk about myself .
You 've been too patient .
I 'm off .
Shall I see you to - morrow ?
Perhaps you 'd lunch with us to - morrow ?
It would be a great pleasure for my wife .
We 're at the Grand Hotel . "
I said I should be most happy , and called the waiter ; at sight of whom my friend said he had talked himself thirsty , and asked for another glass of water .
He mentioned that he had brought his car over with him : his little daughter ( by the news of whose existence I felt idiotically surprised ) was very keen on motoring , and they were all three starting the day after to - morrow on a little tour through France .
Afterward they were going on to Switzerland " for some climbing . "
Did I care about motoring ?
If so , we might go for a spin after luncheon , to Rouen or somewhere .
He drank his glass of water , and , linking a friendly arm in mine , passed out with me into the corridor .
He asked what I was writing now , and said that he looked to me to " do something big one of these days , " and that he was sure I had it in me .
This remark , though of course I pretended to be pleased by it , irritated me very much .
It was destined , as you shall see , to irritate me very much more in recollection .
Yet I was glad he had asked me to luncheon - glad because I liked him and glad because I dislike mysteries .
Though you may think me very dense for not having thoroughly understood Pethel in the course of my first meeting with him , the fact is that I was only aware , and that dimly , of something more in him than he had cared to reveal - some veil behind which perhaps lurked his right to the title so airily bestowed on him by Grierson .
I assured myself , as I walked home , that if veil there was , I should to - morrow find an eyelet .
But one 's intuition when it is off duty seems always a much more powerful engine than it does on active service ; and next day , at sight of Pethel awaiting me outside his hotel , I became less confident .
His , thought I , was a face which , for all its animation , would tell nothing - nothing , at any rate , that mattered .
It expressed well enough that he was pleased to see me ; but for the rest I was reminded that it had a sort of frank inscrutability .
Besides , it was at all points so very usual a face - a face that could n't ( so I then thought ) , even if it had leave to , betray connection with a " great character . "
It was a strong face , certainly ; but so are yours and mine .
And very fresh it looked , though , as he confessed , Pethel had sat up in " that beastly baccarat - room " till five A.M.
I asked , had he lost ?
Yes , he had lost steadily for four hours ( proudly he laid stress on this ) , but in the end - well , he had won it all back " and a bit more . "
" By the way , " he murmured as we were about to enter the hall , " do n't ever happen to mention to my wife what I told you about that Argentine deal .
She 's always rather nervous about - investments .
I do n't tell her about them .
She 's rather a nervous woman altogether , I 'm sorry to say . "
This did not square with my preconception of her .
Slave that I am to traditional imagery , I had figured her as " flaunting , " as golden - haired , as haughty to most men , but with a provocative smile across the shoulder for some .
Nor , indeed , did her husband 's words save me the suspicion that my eyes deceived me when anon I was presented to a very pale , small lady whose hair was rather white than gray .
And the " little daughter ! "
This prodigy 's hair was as yet " down , " but looked as if it might be up at any moment : she was nearly as tall as her father , whom she very much resembled in face and figure and heartiness of hand - shake .
Only after a rapid mental calculation could I account for her .
" I must warn you , she 's in a great rage this morning , " said her father .
" Do try to soothe her . "
She blushed , laughed , and bade her father not be so silly .
I asked her the cause of her great rage .
She said : " He only means I was disappointed .
And he was just as disappointed as I was .
WEREN'T you , now , Father ? "
" I suppose they meant well , Peggy , " he laughed .
" They were QUITE right , " said Mrs. Pethel , evidently not for the first time .
" They , " as I presently learned , were the authorities of the bathing - establishment .
Pethel had promised his daughter he would take her for a swim ; but on their arrival at the bathing - cabins they were ruthlessly told that bathing was defendu a cause du mauvais temps .
This embargo was our theme as we sat down to luncheon .
Miss Peggy was of opinion that the French were cowards .
I pleaded for them that even in English watering - places bathing was forbidden when the sea was VERY rough .
She did not admit that the sea was very rough to - day .
Besides , she appealed to me , where was the fun of swimming in absolutely calm water ?
I dared not say that this was the only sort of water I liked to swim in .
" They were QUITE right , " said Mrs. Pethel again .
" Yes , but , darling Mother , you ca n't swim .
Father and I are both splendid swimmers . "
To gloss over the mother 's disability , I looked brightly at Pethel , as though in ardent recognition of his prowess among waves .
With a movement of his head he indicated his daughter - indicated that there was no one like her in the whole world .
I beamed agreement .
Indeed , I did think her rather nice .
If one liked the father ( and I liked Pethel all the more in that capacity ) , one could n't help liking the daughter , the two were so absurdly alike .
Whenever he was looking at her ( and it was seldom that he looked away from her ) , the effect , if you cared to be fantastic , was that of a very vain man before a mirror .
It might have occurred to me that , if there was any mystery in him , I could solve it through her .
But , in point of fact , I had forgotten all about that possible mystery .
The amateur detective was lost in the sympathetic observer of a father 's love .
That Pethel did love his daughter I have never doubted .
One passion is not less true because another predominates .
No one who ever saw that father with that daughter could doubt that he loved her intensely .
And this intensity gages for me the strength of what else was in him .
Mrs. Pethel 's love , though less explicit , was not less evidently profound .
But the maternal instinct is less attractive to an onlooker , because he takes it more for granted than the paternal .
What endeared poor Mrs. Pethel to me was - well , the inevitability of the epithet I give her .
She seemed , poor thing , so essentially out of it ; and by " it " is meant the glowing mutual affinity of husband and child .
Not that she did n't , in her little way , assert herself during the meal .
But she did so , I thought , with the knowledge that she did n't count , and never would count .
I wondered how it was that she had , in that Cambridge bar - room long ago , counted for Pethel to the extent of matrimony .
But from any such room she seemed so utterly remote that she might well be in all respects now an utterly changed woman .
She did preeminently look as if much had by some means been taken out of her , with no compensatory process of putting in .
Pethel looked so very young for his age , whereas she would have had to be really old to look young for hers .
I pitied her as one might a governess with two charges who were hopelessly out of hand .
But a governess , I reflected , can always give notice .
Love tied poor Mrs. Pethel fast to her present situation .
As the three of them were to start next day on their tour through France , and as the four of us were to make a tour to Rouen this afternoon , the talk was much about motoring , a theme which Miss Peggy 's enthusiasm made almost tolerable .
I said to Mrs. Pethel , with more good - will than truth , that I supposed she was " very keen on it . "
She replied that she was .
" But , darling Mother , you are n't .
I believe you hate it .
You 're ALWAYS asking father to go slower .
And what IS the fun of just crawling along ? "
" Oh , come , Peggy , we never crawl ! "
said her father .
" No , indeed , " said her mother in a tone of which Pethel laughingly said it would put me off coming out with them this afternoon .
I said , with an expert air to reassure Mrs. Pethel , that it was n't fast driving , but only bad driving , that was a danger .
" There , Mother ! "
cried Peggy .
" Is n't that what we 're always telling you ? "
I felt that they were always either telling Mrs. Pethel something or , as in the matter of that intended bath , not telling her something .
It seemed to me possible that Peggy advised her father about his " investments . "
I wondered whether they had yet told Mrs. Pethel of their intention to go on to Switzerland for some climbing .
Of his secretiveness for his wife 's sake I had a touching little instance after luncheon .
We had adjourned to have coffee in front of the hotel .
The car was already in attendance , and Peggy had darted off to make her daily inspection of it .
Pethel had given me a cigar , and his wife presently noticed that he himself was not smoking .
He explained to her that he thought he had smoked too much lately , and that he was going to " knock it off " for a while .
I would not have smiled if he had met my eye , but his avoidance of it made me quite sure that he really had been " thinking over " what I had said last night about nicotine and its possibly deleterious action on the gambling thrill .
Mrs. Pethel saw the smile that I could not repress .
I explained that I was wishing I could knock off tobacco , and envying her husband 's strength of character .
She smiled , too , but wanly , with her eyes on him .
" Nobody has so much strength of character as he has , " she said .
" Nonsense ! "
he laughed .
" I 'm the weakest of men . "
" Yes , " she said quietly ; " that 's true , too , James . "
Again he laughed , but he flushed .
I saw that Mrs. Pethel also had faintly flushed , and I became horribly aware of following suit .
In the sudden glow and silence created by Mrs. Pethel 's paradox , I was grateful to the daughter for bouncing back among us , and asking how soon we should be ready to start .
Pethel looked at his wife , who looked at me and rather strangely asked if I was sure I wanted to go with them .
I protested that of course I did .
Pethel asked her if SHE really wanted to come .
" You see , dear , there was the run yesterday from Calais .
And to - morrow you 'll be on the road again , and all the days after . "
" Yes , " said Peggy ; " I 'm SURE you 'd much rather stay at home , darling Mother , and have a good rest . "
" Shall we go and put on our things , Peggy ? "
replied Mrs. Pethel , rising from her chair .
She asked her husband whether he was taking the chauffeur with him .
He said he thought not .
" Oh , hurrah ! "
cried Peggy .
" Then I can be on the front seat ! "
" No , dear , " said her mother .
" I am sure Mr. Beerbohms would like to be on the front seat . "
" You 'd like to be with mother , would n't you ? "
the girl appealed .
I replied with all possible emphasis that I should like to be with Mrs. Pethel .
But presently , when the mother and daughter reappeared in the guise of motorists , it became clear that my aspiration had been set aside .
" I am to be with mother , " said Peggy .
I was inwardly glad that Mrs. Pethel could , after all , assert herself to some purpose .
Had I thought she disliked me , I should have been hurt ; but I was sure her desire that I should not sit with her was due merely to a belief that , in case of accident , a person on the front seat was less safe than a person behind .
And of course I did not expect her to prefer my life to her daughter 's .
Poor lady !
My heart was with her .
As the car glided along the sea - front and then under the Norman archway , through the town , and past the environs , I wished that her husband inspired in her as much confidence as he did in me .
For me the sight of his clear , firm profile ( he did not wear motor - goggles ) was an assurance in itself .
From time to time ( for I , too , was ungoggled ) I looked round to nod and smile cheerfully at his wife .
She always returned the nod , but left the smile to be returned by the daughter .
Pethel , like the good driver he was , did not talk ; just drove .
But as we came out on to the Rouen road he did say that in France he always rather missed the British police - traps .
" Not , " he added , " that I 've ever fallen into one .
But the chance that a policeman MAY at any moment dart out , and land you in a bit of a scrape does rather add to the excitement , do n't you think ? "
Though I answered in the tone of one to whom the chance of a police - trap is the very salt of life , I did not inwardly like the spirit of his remark .
However , I dismissed it from my mind .
The sun was shining , and the wind had dropped : it was an ideal day for motoring , and the Norman landscape had never looked lovelier to me in its width of sober and silvery grace .
The other names in this memoir are , for good reason , pseudonyms .
I presently felt that this landscape was not , after all , doing itself full justice .
Was it not rushing rather too quickly past ?
" James ! "
said a shrill , faint voice from behind , and gradually - " Oh , darling Mother , really ! "
protested another voice - the landscape slackened pace .
But after a while , little by little , the landscape lost patience , forgot its good manners , and flew faster and faster than before .
The road rushed furiously beneath us , like a river in spate .
Avenues of poplars flashed past us , every tree of them on each side hissing and swishing angrily in the draft we made .
Motors going Rouen - ward seemed to be past as quickly as motors that bore down on us .
Hardly had I espied in the landscape ahead a chateau or other object of interest before I was craning my neck round for a final glimpse of it as it faded on the backward horizon .
An endless uphill road was breasted and crested in a twinkling and transformed into a decline near the end of which our car leaped straight across to the opposite ascent , and - " James ! "
again , and again by degrees the laws of nature were reestablished , but again by degrees revoked .
I did not doubt that speed in itself was no danger ; but , when the road was about to make a sharp curve , why should n't Pethel , just as a matter of form , slow down slightly , and sound a note or two of the hooter ?
Suppose another car were - well , that was all right : the road was clear ; but at the next turning , when our car neither slackened nor hooted and WAS for an instant full on the wrong side of the road , I had within me a contraction which ( at thought of what must have been if - ) lasted though all was well .
Loath to betray fear , I had n't turned my face to Pethel .
Eyes front !
And how about that wagon ahead , huge hay - wagon plodding with its back to us , seeming to occupy whole road ?
Surely Pethel would slacken , hoot .
No .
Imagine a needle threaded with one swift gesture from afar .
Even so was it that we shot , between wagon and road 's - edge , through ; whereon , confronting us within a few yards - inches now , but we swerved - was a cart that incredibly we grazed not as we rushed on , on .
Now indeed I had turned my eyes on Pethel 's profile ; and my eyes saw there that which stilled , with a greater emotion , all fear and wonder in me .
I think that for the first instant , oddly , what I felt was merely satisfaction , not hatred ; for I all but asked him whether , by not smoking to - day , he had got a keener edge to his thrills .
I understood him , and for an instant this sufficed me .
Those pursed - out lips , so queerly different from the compressed lips of the normal motorist , and seeming , as elsewhere last night , to denote no more than pensive interest , had told me suddenly all that I needed to know about Pethel .
Here , as there , - and , oh , ever so much better here than there !
- he could gratify the passion that was in him .
No need of any " make - believe " here .
I remembered the queer look he had given when I asked if his gambling were always " a life - and - death affair . "
Here was the real thing , the authentic game , for the highest stakes .
And here was I , a little extra stake tossed on to the board .
He had vowed I had it in me to do " something big . "
Perhaps , though , there had been a touch of make - believe about that .
I am afraid it was not before my thought about myself that my moral sense began to operate and my hatred of Pethel set in .
Put it to my credit that I did see myself as a mere detail in his villainy .
You deprecate the word " villainy " ?
Understand all , forgive all ?
No doubt .
But between the acts of understanding and forgiving an interval may sometimes be condoned .
Condone it in this instance .
Even at the time I gave Pethel due credit for risking his own life , for having doubtless risked it - it and none other - again and again in the course of his adventurous ( and abstemious ) life by field and flood .
I was even rather touched by memory of his insistence last night on another glass of that water which just MIGHT give him typhoid ; rather touched by memory of his unsaying that he " never " touched alcohol - he who , in point of fact , had to be ALWAYS gambling on something or other .
I gave him due credit , too , for his devotion to his daughter .
But his use of that devotion , his cold use of it to secure for himself the utmost thrill of hazard , did seem utterly abominable to me .
And it was even more for the mother than for the daughter that I was incensed .
That daughter did not know him , did but innocently share his damnable love of chances ; but that wife had for years known him at least as well as I knew him now .
Here again I gave him credit for wishing , though he did n't love her , to spare her what he could .
That he did n't love her I presumed from his indubitable willingness not to stake her in this afternoon 's game .
That he never had loved her - had taken her in his precocious youth simply as a gigantic chance against him , was likely enough .
So much the more credit to him for such consideration as he showed her , though this was little enough .
He could wish to save her from being a looker - on at his game , but he could - he could n't not - go on playing .
Assuredly she was right in deeming him at once the strongest and the weakest of men .
" Rather a nervous woman ! "
I remembered an engraving that had hung in my room at Oxford , and in scores of other rooms there : a presentment by Sir Marcus ( then Mr. ) Stone of a very pretty young person in a Gainsborough hat , seated beneath an ancestral elm , looking as though she were about to cry , and entitled " A Gambler 's Wife . "
Mrs. Pethel was not like that .
Of her there were no engravings for undergraduate hearts to melt at .
But there was one man , certainly , whose compassion was very much at her service .
How was he going to help her ?
I know not how many hair 's - breadth escapes we may have had while these thoughts passed through my brain .
I had closed my eyes .
So preoccupied was I that but for the constant rush of air against my face I might , for aught I knew , have been sitting ensconced in an armchair at home .
After a while I was aware that this rush had abated ; I opened my eyes to the old familiar streets of Rouen .
We were to have tea at the Hotel d'Angleterre .
What was to be my line of action ?
Should I take Pethel aside and say : " Swear to me , on your word of honor as a gentleman , that you will never again touch the driving - gear , or whatever you call it , of a motor - car .
Otherwise , I shall expose you to the world .
Meanwhile , we shall return to Dieppe by train " ?
He might flush ( for I knew him capable of flushing ) as he asked me to explain .
And after ?
He would laugh in my face .
He would advise me not to go motoring any more .
He might even warn me not to go back to Dieppe in one of those dangerous railway - trains .
He might even urge me to wait until a nice Bath chair had been sent out for me from England .
I heard a voice ( mine , alas ! )
saying brightly , " Well , here we are ! "
I helped the ladies to descend .
Tea was ordered .
Pethel refused that stimulant and had a glass of water .
I had a liqueur brandy .
It was evident to me that tea meant much to Mrs. Pethel .
She looked stronger after her second cup , and younger after her third .
Still , it was my duty to help her if I could .
While I talked and laughed , I did not forget that .
But what on earth was I to do ?
I am no hero .
I hate to be ridiculous .
I am inveterately averse to any sort of fuss .
Besides , how was I to be sure that my own personal dread of the return journey had n't something to do with my intention of tackling Pethel ?
I rather thought it had .
What this woman would dare daily because she was a mother could not I dare once ?
I reminded myself of this man 's reputation for invariable luck .
I reminded myself that he was an extraordinarily skilful driver .
To that skill and luck I would pin my faith .
What I seem to myself , do you ask of me ?
But I answered your question a few lines back .
Enough that my faith was rewarded : we did arrive safely in Dieppe .
I still marvel that we did .
That evening , in the vestibule of the casino , Grierson came up to me .
" Seen Jimmy Pethel ? "
he asked .
" He was asking for you .
Wants to see you particularly .
He 's in the baccarat - room , punting , winning hand over fist , OF course .
Said he 'd seldom met a man he liked more than you .
Great character , what ? "
One is always glad to be liked , and I pleaded guilty to a moment 's gratification at the announcement that Pethel liked me .
But I did not go and seek him in the baccarat - room .
A great character assuredly he was , but of a kind with which ( I say it at the risk of seeming priggish ) I prefer not to associate .
Why he had particularly wanted to see me was made clear in a note sent by him to my room early next morning .
He wondered if I could be induced to join them in their little tour .
He hoped I would n't think it great cheek , his asking me .
He thought it might rather amuse me to come .
It would be a very great pleasure to his wife .
He hoped I would n't say no .
Would I send a line by bearer ?
They would be starting at three o'clock .
He was mine sincerely .
It was not too late to tackle him even now .
Should I go round to his hotel ?
I hesitated and - well , I told you at the outset that my last meeting with him was on the morrow of my first .
I forget what I wrote to him , but am sure that the excuse I made for myself was a good and graceful one , and that I sent my kindest regards to Mrs. Pethel .
She had not ( I am sure of that , too ) authorized her husband to say she would like me to come with them .
Else would not the thought of her , the pity of her , have haunted me , as it did for a very long time .
I do not know whether she is still alive .
No mention is made of her in the obituary notice which awoke these memories in me .
This notice I will , however , transcribe , because it is , for all its crudeness of phraseology , rather interesting both as an echo and as an amplification .
Its title is " Death of Wealthy Aviator , " and its text is : Wide - spread regret will be felt in Leicestershire at the tragic death of Mr. James Pethel , who had long resided there and was very popular as an all - round sportsman .
In recent years he had been much interested in aviation , and had had a private aerodrome erected on his property .
Yesterday afternoon he fell down dead quite suddenly as he was returning to his house , apparently in his usual health and spirits , after descending from a short flight which despite a strong wind he had made on a new type of aeroplane , and on which he was accompanied by his married daughter and her infant son .
It is not expected that an inquest will be necessary , as his physician , Dr. Saunders , has certified death to be due to heart - disease , from which , it appears , the deceased gentleman had been suffering for many years .
Dr. Saunders adds that he had repeatedly warned deceased that any strain on the nervous system might prove fatal .
Thus - for I presume that his ailment had its origin in his habits - James Pethel did not , despite that merely pensive look of his , live his life with impunity .
And by reason of that life he died .
As for the manner of his death , enough that he did die .
Let not our hearts be vexed that his great luck was with him to the end .
They came in low , decelerating against dense air , while the passengers talked , and laughed , and pressed their faces against the observation ports .
In the ship 's lounge , a squawk box crackled ... " Twenty minutes , " a mechanical voice said ... " We land on Centauri IV in twenty minutes ...
Passengers for Orion , Antares , Cygni , and Polaris , have your transfers ready . "
Everyone laughed .
The speaker clicked and went dead .
And the boy who 'd been gripping Claude Marshall 's arm looked up .
" What 's he mean , Pop ?
We do n't really have to transfer , do we ? "
Claude Marshall smiled .
" No , Billy .
This is as far as we 're going - as far as anyone 's going . "
" But he said - " " He was only joking , Billy .
Maybe someday people will be going to those places , but not now . "
He glanced at his wife , sitting with her hands folded in her lap .... " I 'm glad it 's over , Joan , " he said .
" It 's been a long trip - a very long trip . "
The woman nodded .
She had dark hair , and blue eyes , and minute lines of maturity around her eyes and mouth that seemed to soften , rather than age her .
She looked almost too young to have mothered a nine - year - old boy - but of course that was one of the requirements .
" Is this where we 're going to live ? "
the boy asked .
Claude looked out the port .
" Yes , Billy .
This is where we 're going to live . "
" Why ? "
" I 've already told you why .
Do n't you remember when I showed you the pictures , and asked you how you 'd like to live where you 'd have lots of room to play , and would n't have to worry about the bombs or anything ? "
" Sure , Pop , " the boy said .
" I remember .
But tell me about it again ? "
Claude looked at his wife ; watched her nod , and answer his smile .
" All right , " he said .
He raised his arm over the foam - cushion seat - back till it rested on the boy 's shoulder .
" You see , Billy , things back on Earth are pretty bad - have been for over a hundred years now .
There 's too many cities , too many wars , and too many people - it 's mostly too many people .
They do n't have room to move around any more the way they used to .... " To make it worse there are always some people who figure that someone else has a little more room than they have , so they try to take it away from them by starting a war .
Not that war ever solves anything .
It 's just that some people think it will . "
" That 's why we left , huh , Pop ? "
" Yes , Billy .
That 's why we left .
The problem was to find some place new ; some place where a man had room to move - room to breathe .
For a long while it did n't look as if there was such a place - not in our solar system anyhow .
But one day a few years before you were born , a fellow by the name of Vincent Taibi made a trip out here to Centauri ....
It was a long trip .
Took him thirteen years to get out here and back .
But the important thing is that he came back with some news ....
He came back and reported that there was an uninhabited planet out here , just about the size of the Earth , that was as fresh and new as it was the day God made it . "
" That 's when we got on this ship .
Right , Pop ? "
Claude frowned .
" Well , not exactly .
You see , Son , to begin with this is a long trip - so long , and so expensive , that no one except maybe a few millionaires would be able to afford it .
Anyhow , the government wanted young people out here : people who could colonize the place ....
They ran a lot of tests , Son . "
" Tests ? "
Claude nodded and turned to his wife .
" The tests , " he said .
" You remember the tests , Joan ? "
" Yes , Claude .
I remember .
It 's been six years , but I remember them as if they happened yesterday . "
" I do n't , Pop . "
" That 's 'cause you were too young , Son .
You did n't have to take the tests .... You were lucky . "
" Claude !
Billy 's not interested in that .
Besides they were necessary . "
" Necessary !
All those psychiatrists ?
Oh come , Joan ....
I felt as if they were picking my brain with an ice pick ! "
" But they had to be careful , Claude . "
" Careful , yes ....
But eight months of tests - every day ! "
" Claude ! "
The woman 's tone was severe .
" Why did they have to be careful , Pop ? "
Billy asked .
" They wanted to be sure , Son .
They did n't want anyone out here who was sick , or lazy , or who wanted to start a war .
They figured if the right kind of people came out here , Centifor would stay as fresh and clean as it was the day that Captain Taibi first landed here . "
The boy looked out the porthole .
" We 'll sure have lots of room here , wo n't we , Pop ? "
" Yes , Son .
We 'll have lots of room .
The government 's given us title to a hundred acres of what 's just about the best land in the Universe ....
I showed you the pictures of our land , did n't I ? "
" Sure , Pop .
Lots of times . "
The woman laughed .
" About a thousand times , I 'd imagine .... Those pictures have been looked at so much , they 're frayed at the corners . "
They landed on a concrete apron , nestled between ridges of rolling hills .
The jets belched , hissed , went out , and from a ranch type structure at the edge of the area , a jeep , towing a portable ramp moved out to meet them .
There was a gentle bump .
Hatches hissed open .
And then the passengers began to move down the ramp .
Among the last to emerge into the bright , warm sunshine , were Claude and Joan Marshall .
Each clasping a hand of their son , they stood at the top of the ramp , breathing deep gulps of sweet - smelling air , and staring at the boundless horizon of the fresh , new world .
Clean and unspoiled it was , like an immense green carpet , dotted with clear , blue lakes , and billions of wildflowers that soaked nourishment out of topsoil twenty inches deep .
A paradise planet , free of bustling crowds and concrete cities .
Untainted by littered alleyways , and dirty kiosks , and the abominable smells of cosmopolitan chaos ....
In place of these was a sun - soaked , fairy - like landscape capped by fleecy white clouds that hung motionless in a sky of robin 's - egg blue .
Claude stabbed an index finger at the patchwork quilt of green and yellow .
" Look Joan .... Our land !
You can see it from here ! "
" Where , Claude ? "
" Out there .... See ?
Way out .
Beyond those lakes ! "
" Oh , Claude .
How can you be sure ? "
" I remember it from the maps - and the pictures .... Our land is just twenty - eight miles from this landing strip , and you cross three ridges of hills to get to it .... See ?
One ... two ...
three ! "
" Is that where we 're going to live , Pop ? "
" Yes , Son .
That 's where we 're going to live .
And there is n't a better piece of land anywhere ....
I know ! "
At the gentle urging of the attendant , they moved off the ramp and melted into the group of passengers drifting toward the ranch - type building at the edge of the area .
A sign over the building said : RECEPTION CENTER , and a man was standing in front of it .
The man was n't old by Earth standards , but leathery skin , and steel - grey patches of hair around his temples made him look very ancient alongside the composite youth of the newly - arrived settlers .
The older man waited till the group had formed a tight semi - circle around him .
Then he smiled and held up both hands .
" Welcome to Centifor , " he said .
" My name is Leon Stubbs , and I am the Director of Colonization . "
He waited till the undercurrent of muttering had died down , and went on : " I know how anxious you all are to settle on your own land , but because immediate transportation is unavailable , there will be a slight delay .
During this time you will be quartered here at the reception center . "
Claude Marshall leaned close to his wife 's ear .
" We 're lucky , Joan , " he whispered .
" We do n't have to worry about transportation .
We can walk to our land if we have to . "
Leon Stubbs said : " If any of you have any questions , feel free to speak up .... That 's why I 'm here . "
He stopped , and pointed at a thin - faced youth with one arm raised while a young , and obviously pregnant girl held onto the other .
" Yes , Sir . "
" We 've been wondering , " the youth said .
" Are our building materials ready yet ? "
" Some of them are , " the director said , " and some of them are n't .
Production here is n't quite what it should be yet .
When you 've been here a while , you 'll realize that because of our relatively small numbers , and comparative inexperience in economic matters , we 're a tightly - knit group .... We have to be .
" There is one thing however that works in our favor .
There are no irrationals or psychological deviants on Centifor .
The tests took care of that .
They were rough , I know .
They were supposed to be rough .
And now that you 're here you 'll all be facing another test ....
The test of practical application .
" Some of you are fortunate in the respect that you 've been awarded land reasonably close to the spaceport area .
Some of you are not so fortunate , and will have to travel several hundred miles .
Perhaps those of you in this latter category will find some consolation in the fact that since you left Terra , the government has started a movement to populate the other side of the planet .
As a matter of fact , all future applications will be assigned to that area . "
Claude looked at his wife .
And she looked back at him .
They did n't speak .
They did n't have to .
It was common knowledge that Centifor was a planet of contrast .
It was a Jekyll and Hyde planet .... One side was a veritable Utopia .
And the other ?
Claude shuddered at the thought of hacking a living out of the razor - backed mountains and bare patches of rocky soil that were frozen stiff nine months out of every thirteen .
" If there are no other questions , " the Director said .
" We 'll get on with the business of setting you up in temporary quarters . "
Twelve hours later , Claude Marshall and his family stood on the ramp of the spaceport watching the blue - tinted sun edge itself over the rim of the planet .
The decision to pack a few immediate necessities and walk to the homestead instead of waiting for transportation had been arrived at the night before .
It was ridiculous , Claude had argued , to waste time at the reception center , when the culmination of a ten year dream lay just twenty - eight miles away .
Especially so , since the Director had informed them that the materials for their prefab home was already waiting for them on the land .
Nor were they alone in their eagerness to begin a new way of life .
Other settlers - some of them burdened - down with supplies that almost equalled their own weight - had already started a trek over the virgin landscape .
In twos and threes , they plodded into the gently - sloping valley .
Some of them moved slowly , some eagerly .
All of them looked like tiny ants on a giant pool table .
Marshall adjusted the knapsack across his shoulders with an air of finality .
" Let 's go , Joan , " he said .
" Stay close , Billy .
We have a long walk ahead of us . "
They started into the valley .
Two hours later they stopped to rest .
They stopped on a patch of rich , green turf in the shadow of a broad - leaf tree .
The spaceport , flanked by its low - slung buildings was still visible , but from seven miles away the buildings looked incredibly tiny .
Like miniatures out of a Christmas kit .
But the thing that impressed them most was the quiet - a strange sort of quiet , free of the whir of copter blades , land - car horns , and other nerve - shattering noises .
Instead , there was only the rustle of a mild breeze through the tree branches , and the sound of their own breathing .
Marshall lay on his back , his fingers laced behind his neck .
" I feel rested , Joan , " he said .
" We 've just walked seven miles , but I feel rested . "
" I know , Claude .
I feel the same way .
It must be the air .
The air feels different . "
" Would n't it be nice if it 'd always stay this way .
Fresh and unspoiled , I mean .
I know it wo n't , but would n't it be nice if it did . "
" It will , Claude .
It will for as long as we live anyhow , and for as long as Billy lives .
That 's what 's important .
We 're very lucky , Claude . "
" I ca n't help thinking of the people back on Earth .
I feel sorry for them . "
" They could do what we did .
They could take the tests . "
" I know .
But even if they did , what would they have ?
Who 'd want to homestead the other side of this planet ?
Who 'd want to live out there anyway ? "
" I would , Pop , " Billy said .
" No you would n't , Son .
Do n't you remember those black mountains we saw from the ship when we came in ? "
" Sure , Pop . "
" Well that 's what the other side of the planet is like .
Only you could n't tell what it was really like because we were too high .
You would n't like it if you had to live there .
It 's cold , and rocky , and there 's only six hours of daylight out of every twenty - six . "
" I would n't like it then , " the boy said .
" I do n't like the dark . "
Claude got up and looked at his wife .
" Shall we move along , " he said .
They pushed ahead .
Eagerly , yet slowly enough to absorb the world 's endless beauty ; stopping at the crest of each new hill ; kneeling at the shores of crystal lakes to quench their thirst ; and scooping up handfuls of rich , black soil in spots where the turf had become dislodged .
The sun of Centauri was almost at zenith when they approached the crest of the ridge that bounded the Marshall homestead .
Claude 's pace , which had been quickening steadily for the final mile , burst into a jagged trot for the final hundred uphill yards .
At the top of the hill he stopped , staring into the lush , green valley , ignoring his family who 'd been unable to keep pace with his eagerness .
The homestead was all that the color photos had advertised - and more .
It was all there .
The flat , rich turf , the stream running through the center of the valley , and the grove of trees under which he 'd build the prefab house .
He 'd anticipated the moment so many times , it was hard to believe it had really arrived .
But it was real - it was .
Everything was exactly as he 'd expected to find it ... except for one thing .
Always in his imagination , the land had been waiting for him to claim it .
Him alone - and his wife and son .
But they were n't alone ....
There were other people on the land .
On his land !
And they were acting as if they lived there !
There were three of them - a man , a woman , and a boy of about nineteen .
The woman appeared to be cooking a meal over a wood fire , while the man and boy were arranging a foundation pattern with part of the stack of building materials which had been ear - marked for the house .
For his house !
Joan and Billy drew up alongside him , and together they stared at the intruders .
" Who are they , Claude ? "
his wife said .
" What does it mean ? "
" I do n't know , honey .
Maybe they just stopped here to eat .
That 's what it must be . "
" But the men .
The way they 're measuring .... As if they 're going to build . "
" We 'll straighten it out , Joan ....
Probably some mistake .
I have our land title .
That 'll prove they 've made a mistake .
Come on .
We 'll talk to them . "
The intruders stopped what they were doing as they approached , and the man - a huge , block - shouldered fellow in a leather jacket - pushed out a hand .
The man said : " Hello .
My name 's Whiting - Bruce Whiting . "
Claude took the hand .
" Claude Marshall , " he said .
" And this is my wife and my son . "
The man who called himself Whiting nodded , and looked over at his wife .
" We 're fixing dinner , " he said .
" Why do n't you and your family join us before you push on ? "
Claude watched the man 's face while he spoke .
It was an open face .
Guileless .
With ruddy skin and mild , grey eyes that twinkled a bit at the corners .
" We 're not pushing on , " he said evenly .
" We 're staying .
This is our land . "
Bruce Whiting smiled .
" There must be some mistake .
This land is ours .
The boy and I are just fixing to start building . "
Claude shook his head .
" Not here you 're not .
Not on this land . "
He spoke quietly ; trying to keep his voice pitched below the emotion that churned up inside him .
" What 's wrong , Dad ? "
The man 's son joined them ....
He was a big strapping lad , with sandy hair and very bright skin .
" These people are looking for their homestead , " the man with the jacket said .
" They think this is their site . "
" You think wrong , Mister , " the youth said .
" We double checked this location three times before we made camp ....
Right ? "
He turned to the older man for confirmation .
Whiting nodded .
" The boy 's right .
This land is ours .
We 've got a deed to prove it . "
" So have I , " Claude said frowning .
" It 's right here in the luggage ....
Wait .
I 'll show you .... " He bent over , unzipping the knapsack and rummaged around till he produced the manila envelope that held the title papers .
Bruce Whiting examined them carefully ; first the neat rows of fine print , then the dozen glossy color - photos which had been taken on the property from strategic angles .
He shook his head and turned to his son .
" Get our titles , Frank , " he said .
The boy left , returning within seconds with a similar manila envelope .
Bruce Whiting opened it and pushed a handful of papers at Claude .
While his wife and son watched , Claude Marshall went through the papers methodically ....
They were all there .
All the measurements ; looking like duplicates , backed up by photos that had apparently been developed from the same negatives ....
He glanced at his wife .
" Something 's wrong , Joan , " he said .
" Mr. Whiting has a claim on this land too .
It 's just like ours ....
Exactly ! "
" But I do n't understand , Claude . "
" It 's not too hard to understand , Mrs. Marshall , " Whiting said .
" It just means that someone in Washington loused up the detail .
They 're always making mistakes like that ....
I figure some clerk - " " But what are we supposed to do ? "
Bruce Whiting moved his shoulders .
" I do n't know , Mrs. Marshall .
I just do n't know .... After all we were here first .
Why do n't you take it up with the Colonization Director ? ...
Maybe there 's another tract he could give you . "
" I do n't want another tract , " Claude said flatly .
" I want this one . "
" So do I , Mr.
Marshall . "
" But the land 's mine ! "
" Is it ?
How about my title ?
It 's just as valid as yours . "
" That 'll be for the law to decide , " Claude said grimly .
" And we 'll fight you on it .
By God , we 'll fight you on it all the way from here to Washington and back ! "
" That 's up to you , of course .
In the meantime , may I remind you that I hold possession ? "
Claude Marshall bit his lip .
" Let 's go Joan , " he said .
" Where , Claude ? "
" Back to the spaceport .
We 'll get a ruling on this . "
" But it 's getting dark .
Ca n't we make camp someplace and go back tomorrow ? "
" I 'm hungry , " Billy said .
" We can eat later , Son . "
Bruce Whiting continued to regard them sullenly .
Then abruptly , his face softened .
" Wait , " he said .
" Do n't go .
Your wife 's right , Mr. Marshall .
You ca n't make the trip after dark .
Why do n't you and your family camp here for the night .... Alice has supper nearly ready and there 's more than enough to go around .... " " We have our own rations , " Claude said .
Bruce Whiting spread out his hands .
" Look , Mr. Marshall .
I know how you feel .
I know , because it 's the same way I feel .
I guess a man ca n't help the way he feels when something threatens the thing he 's been dreaming about all his life .
But it is n't my fault that this happened any more than it 's your fault .
Since the problem concerns both of us , I suggest we sit down and discuss it like intelligent human beings . "
" Mr. Whiting 's right , " Joan said .
" After all it is n't his fault - " " Another thing , " Bruce Whiting went on .
" I 'm expecting a half - trac out here tomorrow with some supplies .
If you and your family wanted to , there 's no reason why we could n't all ride back with him .... Maybe we could get this thing straightened out then and still be friends . "
Claude flicked a look toward the far - off hills that were haloed by the last rays of a strange sun .
Within moments it would be dark .
And a few yards away a woman threw another log on the fire and the pungent aroma of boiling coffee drifted across his nostrils .
" I 'm hungry , " Billy repeated .
Claude held out his hand .
" I 'm sorry , " he said .
" As you say : this is n't our fault .
We 're just caught in the middle . "
They ate picnic - style , off plastic dishes , while Bruce Whiting kept up a continuous stream of conversation , aided from time to time by his comely wife .
The Whiting 's story was a familiar one .
He 'd been with an advertising agency when the colonization urge had struck him .... That was ten years ago ....
He 'd talked it over with his wife , and together they 'd weighed the chances of surviving the rigid tests that eliminated 97 % of the applicants .
The story had a pattern you could play by ear .
Just another man , and another woman , and another boy now in his teens , who 'd grown tired of the struggle for survival in a world that begrudged a man the space occupied by his own body .
And when the meal was over , Joan helped Alice Whiting with the dishes , while the men sat around the fire and smoked .
It was dark out now - a strange kind of darkness , split only by billions of incredibly bright stars and the nearby glow of the crackling wood fire .
Bruce Whiting 's cordiality was contagious too .
Claude found himself talking now ; describing his wants , his ideas , and his ideals .
And when the women returned to the circle , the conversation turned to other subjects .
They discussed clothes , their children , and the future of the planet .
Only one subject was carefully avoided .
And that was the one that was foremost in the minds of all of them .
They were still talking when the fire had settled into weary heaps of smouldering embers .
Then the two families excused themselves and retired to the canvas lean - to 's wondering what the next day would hold in store for them .
The blue sun of Centauri was almost at zenith the next day , when the half - trac arrived with the supplies .
The driver - an amiable man - listened patiently while Bruce and Claude related the mixup , and as had been expected , agreed to transport them back to the base .
The two families rode together in the open back of the vehicle as it jounced over the mildly sloping terrain .
And yet the ride was not unpleasant .
The immensity of the planet was breathtaking .
It was exactly as the colorcasts had pictured it - only better , incredibly better .
No TV travelogue could adequately describe the tang of the air , or the scent of the sweet - smelling grass .
God had indeed been generous with this portion of the planet .
It was hard to believe that the opposite side was a rocky wasteland that would probably fight colonization for another thousand years .
Almost before they knew it , they were at the spaceport .
Sometime during the night , another ship had arrived .
It stood majestically at the far end of the apron , towering over a knot of tiny figures grouped around the rudder stanchions .
The driver swooped past them and brought the half - trac to a halt in front of the reception center where they observed the Colonization Director watching them through the window of his office .
Inside , Leon Stubbs greeted them cordially and ushered them into an inner office containing a metal desk and a dozen file cabinets .
The Director listened patiently , shaking his head from time to time and muttering remarks about government inefficiency ....
When they 'd finished , he ran his hand through his greying hair .
" This , of course , is an outrage , Gentlemen , " he said .
" But before I can do anything , I 'll have to check both your claims . "
He indicated the file cabinets .
" It may take a little time but I 'll get at it right away .
As a matter of fact I believe they 're serving lunch at the mess hall now .
Why do n't you all have lunch and come back in about an hour .
I 'll know more about the situation then . "
Leon Stubbs shuffled through some papers on the desk , indicating dismissal .
The two men joined their families in the anteroom .
After an awkward silence , Bruce Whiting and his family excused themselves , leaving the Marshall 's alone .
" What did he say , Claude ?
Tell me !
What did he say ? "
" He does n't know yet , honey .
He 's checking the claims .
We 're supposed to come back in an hour . "
" But it will be all right , wo n't it .
It 's got to be all right ! "
" I do n't know , Joan .
So help me , I do n't know .... We ca n't both have the land .
That 's for sure .
One of us will have to settle for someplace else . "
" Suppose we did have to take another tract , Claude .
Would you be disappointed - I mean , really disappointed .... After all , is n't the important thing the fact that we 're here ? "
Claude managed a smile .
" I suppose so , " he admitted .
" It 's just that it comes as sort of a letdown .
For almost seven years now we 've been looking at the pictures of this land .
We knew where we 'd build the house , what portion we 'd farm ....
I know every tree , every square inch of it .... And now - " " But there 's other land .
We 've only seen a small portion of the planet . "
He shook his head .
" Not like this .
This claim has everything .
What 's more , Whiting knows it .
That 's why he 'll fight us on it all the way . "
" They seem like nice people .
Claude .
Could n't we talk to them ... make some sort of deal ? "
" A deal ?
What sort of deal ? "
" A hundred acres is a lot of land - an awful lot of land .... Maybe the Whitings would - " " Uh uh .
No good .
I 've already felt him out on that .
I had the same idea last night , so I came right out and asked him if he 'd settle for fifty acres apiece ....
He refused .
Oh , he was nice enough about it .
But he gave me to understand it was all or nothing with him . "
" I 'm hungry , " Billy said .
Claude looked at his wife .
" So am I.
Let 's go over to the mess hall .
That 's where the Whitings went , I think . "
" Claude ? "
" Yes , Joan . "
" Let 's not sit with them , if we meet them there . "
" All right , honey .
Let 's not . "
They were halfway to the door when Leon Stubbs came out of the inner office .
He smiled .
" Mind stepping inside a moment ? "
he said .
When Claude hesitated , he added : " Perhaps Mrs. Marshall had better come in too . "
They followed him inside where the Director indicated two chairs alongside the desk .
" I 've been checking your claims , " he said .
" And since you were still here , I did n't think it advisable to prolong the suspense . "
Claude glanced at his wife .
" You mean it 's all right ... the land is ours ? "
The Director sat down and spread open a pair of folders on the desk .
For a long while he stared at them - comparing them .
He shook his head .
" I 'm afraid not , Mr. Marshall .
I 'm afraid it is n't all right . "
" But our claim .
It 's valid , is n't it ? "
Leon Stubbs ran a hand through his greying hair .
" I do n't know , " he said .
" Naturally the fault for processing duplicate claims lies with the colonization bureau in Washington .
Eventually , I suppose it will be up to them to decide on the disposition of this case ....
However , because of the time - lag in communications , I have full authority to pass down temporary decisions in matters of this type .... And because Mr. Whiting 's claim is dated several days ahead of yours , I must in all fairness award the land to him .... You and your wife can appeal that decision of course . "
" We 'll appeal , Mr. Stubbs , " Claude said angrily .
" After all , this mess is the government 's fault .
Not ours !
It 's up to them to straighten it out . "
" That 's up to you , " Leon Stubbs said .
" Although I 'm sure you realize that in the meantime you 'll have to make some temporary arrangements . "
" Temporary arrangements ? "
" Yes , Mr. Marshall .
Even assuming the government decides in your favor - which I doubt - you 'll have to live somewhere while the case is being processed .... And that will take some time . "
" How long ? "
Leon Stubbs shuffled through the papers again .
" You know about the time - lag , do n't you ? "
" No .
What about the time - lag ? "
The Director met his stare .
" I thought you knew .
Actually the only communication we have with Terra short of space travel , is by short wave radio , and radio waves as you may know travel at approximately the speed of light .
Since we are approximately 4.4 light - years away from Earth , a round trip message to Washington would take about nine years .
This of course does not take into consideration the time needed to process your case . "
Claude kept watching the Director 's face while he spoke .
He looked like an honest man .
To all intents and purposes he was simply a public servant performing a distasteful duty .
Yet there was something about his voice that had an all - too - familiar ring .... Something that hinted he was leading up to an offer .
Claude cleared his throat .
" All right , Mr. Stubbs .
So you 've convinced me of the futility of appealing the claim .
What now ? "
Leon Stubbs bit off the end of a cigar and lit it before answering .
" I 've arranged to give you and your family an alternate claim , Mr. Marshall .
Of course it is n't quite as desirable as the original one .
But under the circumstances - " He let the sentence trail off .
" I see , " Claude said .
" And where is this alternate claim ? "
Stubbs examined the end of his cigar .
" It 's on the other side of the planet , Mr. Marshall .
I 'm sorry , but that 's the best I can do . "
At his elbow , Claude caught the sharp intake of his wife 's breath .
" It really is n't too bad , " the Director went on .
" Many of the reports about the cold - side have been exaggerated . "
" I 'm sure they have , " Claude said bitterly .
" I 'm sure it 's just the place to bring up a nine - year - old boy . "
" Please Mr. Marshall .
Do n't be bitter .
It is n't my fault . "
Claude got up placing his palms on the edge of the metal desk .
He leaned forward till his face was only inches away from the Director 's cigar , and said : " Is n't it ? "
The Director did n't answer .
Instead he got up and walked over to the open window .
For ten full seconds he stared out at the lush valley that flanked the spaceport .
Then he turned .
" You want my advice , Mr.
Marshall ? "
Claude shrugged his shoulders .
" Go home , " Leon Stubbs said .
" You ca n't bring up a boy on the cold - side .
It just would n't work . "
" But we just got here , " Joan said .
" We sold everything we had to come here ! "
Stubbs nodded .
" I know , " he said .
He indicated the folders .
" It 's all there in your records .
Six years ago you left Terra with six - thousand credits .
But surely with that kind of money you could get a fresh start almost anywhere . "
" But we want to stay here , Mr.
Stubbs . "
Stubbs took a drag out of the cigar .
" I know , " he said woodenly .
Claude remained silent , regarding the conversation carefully .
A pattern was beginning to form now - a familiar pattern .
He walked over to where the Director was standing .
" Perhaps you could make a suggestion , Mr. Stubbs .
Surely there must be opportunities on this side of the planet for a man with six - thousand credits ? "
" I 'm not quite sure what you 're getting at , " Leon Stubbs said .
" I think you do , Mr. Stubbs , " Claude retorted .
" I think we 're both getting at the same thing .
Suppose we dispense with the subtleties and get down to cases . "
The Director sat down at the desk pyramiding his fingertips .
" Very well , Mr. Marshall , " he said .
" I 'll be blunt .
It 's occurred to me that if the date on your claim were changed , the land would naturally be yours .
The difficulty of course lies in the fact that there are duplicate records on Terra and we 'd have to take care of the man who handles them .
Otherwise the discrepancy would show up eventually .
Actually , I want nothing for myself but these people in Washington - " " Yeah , I know , " Claude interrupted .
" It 's someone else who 's getting the money .
It 's always someone else who 's getting the money . "
" It would take quite a bit , I 'm afraid , " the Director said ignoring the sarcasm .
" How much ? "
The Director stubbed out the end of his cigar .
" About five thousand , " he said .
" Yes .
Five thousand ought to do it . "
Claude looked at his wife .
And she looked back at him .
Outside , Billy had tired of the seven - year - old magazine and was hammering on the door for admittance .
" Can we have a few minutes to think it over ? "
Claude said .
" Certainly , " Stubbs said amiably .
" And I want to make it quite clear , Mr. Marshall , that this money is not for me .
There 's this fellow - " " Yeah , I know .
There 's this fellow in Washington .
Come on Joan .
Let 's step outside a moment . "
Ten minutes later , Leon Stubbs answered their knock and ushered them to the desk chairs .
After they were seated , he said : " I take it you 've talked it over . "
Claude nodded .
" Yes , Mr. Stubbs .
My wife and I talked it over and we came to a decision . "
" I 'm glad , " the Director said .
" And may I say I think you 're doing a wise thing .
Centifor 's a beautiful place .
Simply beautiful .... " " Yes it is , " Claude agreed .
" It is beautiful .
That 's why we 'd like to see it stay that way . "
The Director raised an eyebrow .
" My wife and I talked it over , " Claude went on , " and we decided that taking someone else 's land whether it 's done by theft , force , or bribery is wrong .
We thought of this place as something fresh and clean .
We thought all those tests we took were designed to keep people like you out of here .
Now it appears we were mistaken .
We 've talked it over , Mr. Stubbs , and we 've decided to go back to Earth and expose you . "
" But you ca n't , " the Director said .
" You 've - " " Yes we can , " Claude said .
" The ships go back practically empty .
A return berth will be no trouble at all .
We 're returning on the first ship out . "
" Perhaps we could make a better deal , " Stubbs said .
" Perhaps five thousand is too much .
Perhaps - " " No .
No deals !
Let 's go Joan . "
They went outside , into the fresh warm sunshine , staring at the torpedo shaped spaceship standing in the clearance area half - a - mile away .
They 'd just started toward it , when a jeep squealed up alongside them .
Bruce Whiting was at the wheel .
" Hi , " he said .
" Hop in .
I 'll give you a lift . "
" Thanks , " Claude said without bitterness .
He helped his wife and son into the rear seat and climbed in beside the driver .
" I suppose congratulations are in order , " he said as the other man threw the vehicle into gear .
" Stubbs tells me the land is yours now . "
The driver nodded , inching down on the accelerator .
The vehicle leaped forward .
At seventy miles an hour , they swooped past the spaceship and the knot of people standing in the shadow of the rudder stanchions .
" Hey .
Slow up ! "
Claude yelled .
" We 're getting off here .
We 're booking return passage on that ship ! "
Whiting did n't answer .
The low slung buildings of the clearance area leaped up at them and passed into the background .
They were heading into open country now .
" Whiting !
Turn around .
We 're staying here in the clearance area ! "
Whiting 's foot slacked off the accelerator .
The speedometer dropped to fifty .
But the vehicle kept moving into open country .
The man at the wheel flicked a look at Claude and smiled .
" Congratulations , Mr. Marshall , " he said .
" You 've passed the final test . "
" Test ?
I do n't understand . "
" Let me explain then , " Bruce Whiting said .
" In the first place my name is n't Whiting ....
It 's Reed - Paul Reed .
I work for the government .
This final test - the one you just went through - was designed to weed out any undesirables who might have slipped through our screening processes back on Earth . "
" You mean this whole build up was just a test ? "
The other man nodded .
" We give it to every new arrival here .
Now that you 've passed , I 'm driving you out to your homestead site . "
Claude looked back at the newly - arrived spaceship and the tiny figures who were huddled at its base .
" All those people , " he said .
" You mean they still have to go through what we did ? "
The driver shook his head .
" No .
Those people are going back to Earth .
You see , Mr. Marshall , those are the people who offered Leon Stubbs the bribe . "
You ought to buy it , " said my host ; " its Just the place for a solitary - minded devil like you .
And it would be rather worth while to own the most romantic house in Brittany .
The present people are dead broke , and it 's going for a song - you ought to buy it . "
It was not with the least idea of living up to the character my friend Lanrivain ascribed to me ( as a matter of fact , under my unsociable exterior I have always had secret yearnings for domesticity ) that I took his hint one autumn afternoon and went to Kerfol .
My friend was motoring over to Quimper on business : he dropped me on the way , at a cross - road on a heath , and said : " First turn to the right and second to the left .
Then straight ahead till you see an avenue .
If you meet any peasants , do n't ask your way .
They do n't understand French , and they would pretend they did and mix you up .
I 'll be back for you here by sunset - and do n't forget the tombs in the chapel . "
I followed Lanrivain 's directions with the hesitation occasioned by the usual difficulty of remembering whether he had said the first turn to the right and second to the left , or the contrary .
If I had met a peasant I should certainly have asked , and probably been sent astray ; but I had the desert landscape to myself , and so stumbled on the right turn and walked across the heath till I came to an avenue .
It was so unlike any other avenue I have ever seen that I instantly knew it must be the avenue .
The grey - trunked trees sprang up straight to a great height and then interwove their pale - grey branches in a long tunnel through which the autumn light fell faintly .
I know most trees by name , but I have n't to this day been able to decide what those trees were .
They had the tall curve of elms , the tenuity of poplars , the ashen colour of olives under a rainy sky ; and they stretched ahead of me for half a mile or more without a break in their arch .
If ever I saw an avenue that unmistakably led to something , it was the avenue at Kerfol .
My heart beat a little as I began to walk down it .
Presently the trees ended and I came to a fortified gate in a long wall .
Between me and the wall was an open space of grass , with other grey avenues radiating from it .
Behind the wall were tall slate roofs mossed with silver , a chapel belfry , the top of a keep .
A moat filled with wild shrubs and brambles surrounded the place ; the drawbridge had been replaced by a stone arch , and the portcullis by an iron gate .
I stood for a long time on the hither side of the moat , gazing about me , and letting the influence of the place sink in .
I said to myself : " If I wait long enough , the guardian will turn up and show me the tombs - " and I rather hoped he would n't turn up too soon .
I sat down on a stone and lit a cigarette .
As soon as I had done it , it struck me as a puerile and portentous thing to do , with that great blind house looking down at me , and all the empty avenues converging on me .
It may have been the depth of the silence that made me so conscious of my gesture .
The squeak of my match sounded as loud as the scraping of a brake , and I almost fancied I heard it fall when I tossed it onto the grass .
But there was more than that : a sense of irrelevance , of littleness , of futile bravado , in sitting there puffing my cigarette - smoke into the face of such a past .
I knew nothing of the history of Kerfol - I was new to Brittany , and Lanrivain had never mentioned the name to me till the day before - but one could n't as much as glance at that pile without feeling in it a long accumulation of history .
What kind of history I was not prepared to guess : perhaps only that sheer weight of many associated lives and deaths which gives a majesty to all old houses .
But the aspect of Kerfol suggested something more - a perspective of stern and cruel memories stretching away , like its own grey avenues , into a blur of darkness .
Certainly no house had ever more completely and finally broken with the present .
As it stood there , lifting its proud roofs and gables to the sky , it might have been its own funeral monument .
" Tombs in the chapel ?
The whole place is a tomb ! "
I reflected .
I hoped more and more that the guardian would not come .
The details of the place , however striking , would seem trivial compared with its collective impressiveness ; and I wanted only to sit there and be penetrated by the weight of its silence .
" It 's the very place for you ! "
Lanrivain had said ; and I was overcome by the almost blasphemous frivolity of suggesting to any living being that Kerfol was the place for him .
" Is it possible that any one could not See - ? "
I wondered .
I did not finish the thought : what I meant was undefinable .
I stood up and wandered toward the gate .
I was beginning to want to know more ; not to see more - I was by now so sure it was not a question of seeing - but to feel more : feel all the place had to communicate .
" But to get in one will have to rout out the keeper , " I thought reluctantly , and hesitated .
Finally I crossed the bridge and tried the iron gate .
It yielded , and I walked through the tunnel formed by the thickness of the chemin de ronde .
At the farther end , a wooden barricade had been laid across the entrance , and beyond it was a court enclosed in noble architecture .
The main building faced me ; and I now saw that one half was a mere ruined front , with gaping windows through which the wild growths of the moat and the trees of the park were visible .
The rest of the house was still in its robust beauty .
One end abutted on the round tower , the other on the small traceried chapel , and in an angle of the building stood a graceful well - head crowned with mossy urns .
A few roses grew against the walls , and on an upper window - sill I remember noticing a pot of fuchsias .
My sense of the pressure of the invisible began to yield to my architectural interest .
The building was so fine that I felt a desire to explore it for its own sake .
I looked about the court , wondering in which corner the guardian lodged .
Then I pushed open the barrier and went in .
As I did so , a dog barred my way .
He was such a remarkably beautiful little dog that for a moment he made me forget the splendid place he was defending .
I was not sure of his breed at the time , but have since learned that it was Chinese , and that he was of a rare variety called the " Sleeve - dog . "
He was very small and golden brown , with large brown eyes and a ruffled throat : he looked like a large tawny chrysanthemum .
I said to myself : " These little beasts always snap and scream , and somebody will be out in a minute . "
The little animal stood before me , forbidding , almost menacing : there was anger in his large brown eyes .
But he made no sound , he came no nearer .
Instead , as I advanced , he gradually fell back , and I noticed that another dog , a vague rough brindled thing , had limped up on a lame leg .
" There 'll be a hubbub now , " I thought ; for at the same moment a third dog , a long - haired white mongrel , slipped out of a doorway and joined the others .
All three stood looking at me with grave eyes ; but not a sound came from them .
As I advanced they continued to fall back on muffled paws , still watching me .
" At a given point , they 'll all charge at my ankles : it 's one of the jokes that dogs who live together put up on one , " I thought .
I was not alarmed , for they were neither large nor formidable .
But they let me wander about the court as I pleased , following me at a little distance - always the same distance - and always keeping their eyes on me .
Presently I looked across at the ruined facade , and saw that in one of its empty window - frames another dog stood : a white pointer with one brown ear .
He was an old grave dog , much more experienced than the others ; and he seemed to be observing me with a deeper intentness .
" I 'll hear from him , " I said to myself ; but he stood in the window - frame , against the trees of the park , and continued to watch me without moving .
I stared back at him for a time , to see if the sense that he was being watched would not rouse him .
Half the width of the court lay between us , and we gazed at each other silently across it .
But he did not stir , and at last I turned away .
Behind me I found the rest of the pack , with a newcomer added : a small black greyhound with pale agate - coloured eyes .
He was shivering a little , and his expression was more timid than that of the others .
I noticed that he kept a little behind them .
And still there was not a sound .
I stood there for fully five minutes , the circle about me - waiting , as they seemed to be waiting .
At last I went up to the little golden - brown dog and stooped to pat him .
As I did so , I heard myself give a nervous laugh .
The little dog did not start , or growl , or take his eyes from me - he simply slipped back about a yard , and then paused and continued to look at me .
" Oh , hang it ! "
I exclaimed , and walked across the court toward the well .
As I advanced , the dogs separated and slid away into different corners of the court .
I examined the urns on the well , tried a locked door or two , and looked up and down the dumb faade ; then I faced about toward the chapel .
When I turned I perceived that all the dogs had disappeared except the old pointer , who still watched me from the window .
It was rather a relief to be rid of that cloud of witnesses ; and I began to look about me for a way to the back of the house .
" Perhaps there 'll be somebody in the garden , " I thought .
I found a way across the moat , scrambled over a wall smothered in brambles , and got into the garden .
A few lean hydrangeas and geraniums pined in the flower - beds , and the ancient house looked down on them indifferently .
Its garden side was plainer and severer than the other : the long granite front , with its few windows and steep roof , looked like a fortress - prison .
I walked around the farther wing , went up some disjointed steps , and entered the deep twilight of a narrow and incredibly old box - walk .
The walk was just wide enough for one person to slip through , and its branches met overhead .
It was like the ghost of a box - walk , its lustrous green all turning to the shadowy greyness of the avenues .
I walked on and on , the branches hitting me in the face and springing back with a dry rattle ; and at length I came out on the grassy top of the chemin de ronde .
I walked along it to the gate - tower , looking down into the court , which was just below me .
Not a human being was in sight ; and neither were the dogs .
I found a flight of steps in the thickness of the wall and went down them ; and when I emerged again into the court , there stood the circle of dogs , the golden - brown one a little ahead of the others , the black greyhound shivering in the rear .
" Oh , hang it - you uncomfortable beasts , you ! "
I exclaimed , my voice startling me with a sudden echo .
The dogs stood motionless , watching me .
I knew by this time that they would not try to prevent my approaching the house , and the knowledge left me free to examine them .
I had a feeling that they must be horribly cowed to be so silent and inert .
Yet they did not look hungry or ill - treated .
Their coats were smooth and they were not thin , except the shivering greyhound .
It was more as if they had lived a long time with people who never spoke to them or looked at them : as though the silence of the place had gradually benumbed their busy inquisitive natures .
And this strange passivity , this almost human lassitude , seemed to me sadder than the misery of starved and beaten animals .
I should have liked to rouse them for a minute , to coax them into a game or a scamper ; but the longer I looked into their fixed and weary eyes the more preposterous the idea became .
With the windows of that house looking down on us , how could I have imagined such a thing ?
The dogs knew better : they knew what the house would tolerate and what it would not .
I even fancied that they knew what was passing through my mind , and pitied me for my frivolity .
But even that feeling probably reached them through a thick fog of listlessness .
I had an idea that their distance from me was as nothing to my remoteness from them .
The impression they produced was that of having in common one memory so deep and dark that nothing that had happened since was worth either a growl or a wag .
" I say , " I broke out abruptly , addressing myself to the dumb circle , " do you know what you look like , the whole lot of you ?
You look as if you 'd seen a ghost - that 's how you look !
I wonder if there is a ghost here , and nobody but you left for it to appear to ? "
The dogs continued to gaze at me without moving ....
It was dark when I saw Lanrivain 's motor lamps at the cross - roads - and I was n't exactly sorry to see them .
I had the sense of having escaped from the loneliest place in the whole world , and of not liking loneliness - to that degree - as much as I had imagined I should .
My friend had brought his solicitor back from Quimper for the night , and seated beside a fat and affable stranger I felt no inclination to talk of Kerfol ....
But that evening , when Lanrivain and the solicitor were closeted in the study , Madame de Lanrivain began to question me in the drawing - room .
" Well - are you going to buy Kerfol ? "
she asked , tilting up her gay chin from her embroidery .
" I have n't decided yet .
The fact is , I could n't get into the house , " I said , as if I had simply postponed my decision , and meant to go back for another look .
" You could n't get in ?
Why , what happened ?
The family are mad to sell the place , and the old guardian has orders - " " Very likely .
But the old guardian was n't there . "
" What a pity !
He must have gone to market .
But his daughter - ? "
" There was nobody about .
At least I saw no one . "
" How extraordinary !
Literally nobody ? "
" Nobody but a lot of dogs - a whole pack of them - who seemed to have the place to themselves . "
Madame de Lanrivain let the embroidery slip to her knee and folded her hands on it .
For several minutes she looked at me thoughtfully .
" A pack of dogs - you saw them ? "
" Saw them ?
I saw nothing else ! "
" How many ? "
She dropped her voice a little .
" I 've always wondered - " I looked at her with surprise : I had supposed the place to be familiar to her .
" Have you never been to Kerfol ? "
I asked .
" Oh , yes : often .
But never on that day . "
" What day ? "
" I 'd quite forgotten - and so had Herv , I 'm sure .
If we 'd remembered , we never should have sent you to - day - but then , after all , one does n't half believe that sort of thing , does one ? "
" What sort of thing ? "
I asked , involuntarily sinking my voice to the level of hers .
Inwardly I was thinking : " I knew there was something .... " Madame de Lanrivain cleared her throat and produced a reassuring smile .
" Did n't Herv tell you the story of Kerfol ?
An ancestor of his was mixed up in it .
You know every Breton house has its ghost - story ; and some of them are rather unpleasant . "
" Yes - but those dogs ? "
" Well , those dogs are the ghosts of Kerfol .
At least , the peasants say there 's one day in the year when a lot of dogs appear there ; and that day the keeper and his daughter go off to Morlaix and get drunk .
The women in Brittany drink dreadfully . "
She stooped to match a silk ; then she lifted her charming inquisitive Parisian face .
" Did you really see a lot of dogs ?
There is n't one at Kerfol . "
she said .
II Lanrivain , the next day , hunted out a shabby calf volume from the back of an upper shelf of his library .
" Yes - here it is .
What does it call itself ?
A History of the Assizes of the Duchy of Brittany .
Quimper , 1702 .
The book was written about a hundred years later than the Kerfol affair ; but I believe the account is transcribed pretty literally from the judicial records .
Anyhow , it 's queer reading .
And there 's a Herv de Lanrivain mixed up in it - not exactly my style , as you 'll see .
But then he 's only a collateral .
Here , take the book up to bed with you .
I do n't exactly remember the details ; but after you 've read it I 'll bet anything you 'll leave your light burning all night ! "
I left my light burning all night , as he had predicted ; but it was chiefly because , till near dawn , I was absorbed in my reading .
The account of the trial of Anne de Cornault , wife of the lord of Kerfol , was long and closely printed .
It was , as my friend had said , probably an almost literal transcription of what took place in the court - room ; and the trial lasted nearly a month .
Besides , the type of the book was very bad .... At first I thought of translating the old record .
But it is full of wearisome repetitions , and the main lines of the story are forever straying off into side issues .
So I have tried to disentangle it , and give it here in a simpler form .
At times , however , I have reverted to the text because no other words could have conveyed so exactly the sense of what I felt at Kerfol ; and nowhere have I added anything of my own .
III It was in the year 16 - that Yves de Cornault , lord of the domain of Kerfol , went to the pardon of Locronan to perform his religious duties .
He was a rich and powerful noble , then in his sixty - second year , but hale and sturdy , a great horseman and hunter and a pious man .
So all his neighbours attested .
In appearance he was short and broad , with a swarthy face , legs slightly bowed from the saddle , a hanging nose and broad hands with black hairs on them .
He had married young and lost his wife and son soon after , and since then had lived alone at Kerfol .
Twice a year he went to Morlaix , where he had a handsome house by the river , and spent a week or ten days there ; and occasionally he rode to Rennes on business .
Witnesses were found to declare that during these absences he led a life different from the one he was known to lead at Kerfol , where he busied himself with his estate , attended mass daily , and found his only amusement in hunting the wild boar and water - fowl .
But these rumours are not particularly relevant , and it is certain that among people of his own class in the neighbourhood he passed for a stern and even austere man , observant of his religious obligations , and keeping strictly to himself .
There was no talk of any familiarity with the women on his estate , though at that time the nobility were very free with their peasants .
Some people said he had never looked at a woman since his wife 's death ; but such things are hard to prove , and the evidence on this point was not worth much .
Well , in his sixty - second year , Yves de Cornault went to the pardon at Locronan , and saw there a young lady of Douarnenez , who had ridden over pillion behind her father to do her duty to the saint .
Her name was Anne de Barrigan , and she came of good old Breton stock , but much less great and powerful than that of Yves de Cornault ; and her father had squandered his fortune at cards , and lived almost like a peasant in his little granite manor on the moors ....
I have said I would add nothing of my own to this bald statement of a strange case ; but I must interrupt myself here to describe the young lady who rode up to the lych - gate of Locronan at the very moment when the Baron de Cornault was also dismounting there .
I take my description from a faded drawing in red crayon , sober and truthful enough to be by a late pupil of the Clouets , which hangs in Lanrivain 's study , and is said to be a portrait of Anne de Barrigan .
It is unsigned and has no mark of identity but the initials A.
B. , and the date 16 - , the year after her marriage .
It represents a young woman with a small oval face , almost pointed , yet wide enough for a full mouth with a tender depression at the corners .
The nose is small , and the eyebrows are set rather high , far apart , and as lightly pencilled as the eyebrows in a Chinese painting .
The forehead is high and serious , and the hair , which one feels to be fine and thick and fair , is drawn off it and lies close like a cap .
The eyes are neither large nor small , hazel probably , with a look at once shy and steady .
A pair of beautiful long hands are crossed below the lady 's breast ....
The chaplain of Kerfol , and other witnesses , averred that when the Baron came back from Locronan he jumped from his horse , ordered another to be instantly saddled , called to a young page to come with him , and rode away that same evening to the south .
His steward followed the next morning with coffers laden on a pair of pack mules .
The following week Yves de Cornault rode back to Kerfol , sent for his vassals and tenants , and told them he was to be married at All Saints to Anne de Barrigan of Douarnenez .
And on All Saints ' Day the marriage took place .
As to the next few years , the evidence on both sides seems to show that they passed happily for the couple .
No one was found to say that Yves de Cornault had been unkind to his wife , and it was plain to all that he was content with his bargain .
Indeed , it was admitted by the chaplain and other witnesses for the prosecution that the young lady had a softening influence on her husband , and that he became less exacting with his tenants , less harsh to peasants and dependents , and less subject to the fits of gloomy silence which had darkened his widowhood .
As to his wife , the only grievance her champions could call up in her behalf was that Kerfol was a lonely place , and that when her husband was away on business at Bennes or Morlaix - whither she was never taken - she was not allowed so much as to walk in the park unaccompanied .
But no one asserted that she was unhappy , though one servant - woman said she had surprised her crying , and had heard her say that she was a woman accursed to have no child , and nothing in life to call her own .
But that was a natural enough feeling in a wife attached to her husband ; and certainly it must have been a great grief to Yves de Cornault that she bore no son .
Yet he never made her feel her childlessness as a reproach - she admits this in her evidence - but seemed to try to make her forget it by showering gifts and favours on her .
Rich though he was , he had never been openhanded ; but nothing was too fine for his wife , in the way of silks or gems or linen , or whatever else she fancied .
Every wandering merchant was welcome at Kerfol , and when the master was called away he never came back without bringing his wife a handsome present - something curious and particular - from Morlaix or Rennes or Quimper .
One of the waiting - women gave , in cross - examination , an interesting list of one year 's gifts , which I copy .
From Morlaix , a carved ivory junk , with Chinamen at the oars , that a strange sailor had brought back as a votive offering for Notre Dame de la Clart , above Ploumanac'h ; from Quimper , an embroidered gown , worked by the nuns of the Assumption ; from Rennes , a silver rose that opened and showed an amber Virgin with a crown of garnets ; from Morlaix , again , a length of Damascus velvet shot with gold , bought of a Jew from Syria ; and for Michaelmas that same year , from Rennes , a necklet or bracelet of round stones - emeralds and pearls and rubies - strung like beads on a fine gold chain .
This was the present that pleased the lady best , the woman said .
Later on , as it happened , it was produced at the trial , and appears to have struck the Judges and the public as a curious and valuable jewel .
The very same winter , the Baron absented himself again , this time as far as Bordeaux , and on his return he brought his wife something even odder and prettier than the bracelet .
It was a winter evening when he rode up to Kerfol and , walking into the hall , found her sitting by the hearth , her chin on her hand , looking into the fire .
He carried a velvet box in his hand and , setting it down , lifted the lid and let out a little golden - brown dog .
Anne de Cornault exclaimed with pleasure as the little creature bounded toward her .
" Oh , it looks like a bird or a butterfly ! "
she cried as she picked it up ; and the dog put its paws on her shoulders and looked at her with eyes " like a Christian 's . "
After that she would never have it out of her sight , and petted and talked to it as if it had been a child - as indeed it was the nearest thing to a child she was to know .
Yves de Cornault was much pleased with his purchase .
The dog had been brought to him by a sailor from an East India merchantman , and the sailor had bought it of a pilgrim in a bazaar at Jaffa , who had stolen it from a nobleman 's wife in China : a perfectly permissible thing to do , since the pilgrim was a Christian and the nobleman a heathen doomed to hell - fire .
Yves de Cornault had paid a long price for the dog , for they were beginning to be in demand at the French court , and the sailor knew he had got hold of a good thing ; but Anne 's pleasure was so great that , to see her laugh and play with the little animal , her husband would doubtless have given twice the sum .
So far , all the evidence is at one , and the narrative plain sailing ; but now the steering becomes difficult .
I will try to keep as nearly as possible to Anne 's own statements ; though toward the end , poor thing .... Well , to go back .
The very year after the little brown dog was brought to Kerfol , Yves de Cornault , one winter night , was found dead at the head of a narrow flight of stairs leading down from his wife 's rooms to a door opening on the court .
It was his wife who found him and gave the alarm , so distracted , poor wretch , with fear and horror - for his blood was all over her - that at first the roused household could not make out what she was saying , and thought she had suddenly gone mad .
But there , sure enough , at the top of the stairs lay her husband , stone dead , and head foremost , the blood from his wounds dripping down to the steps below him .
He had been dreadfully scratched and gashed about the face and throat , as if with curious pointed weapons ; and one of his legs had a deep tear in it which had cut an artery , and probably caused his death .
But how did he come there , and who had murdered him ?
His wife declared that she had been asleep in her bed , and hearing his cry had rushed out to find him lying on the stairs ; but this was immediately questioned .
In the first place , it was proved that from her room she could not have heard the struggle on the stairs , owing to the thickness of the walls and the length of the intervening passage ; then it was evident that she had not been in bed and asleep , since she was dressed when she roused the house , and her bed had not been slept in .
Moreover , the door at the bottom of the stairs was ajar , and it was noticed by the chaplain ( an observant man ) that the dress she wore was stained with blood about the knees , and that there were traces of small blood - stained hands low down on the staircase walls , so that it was conjectured that she had really been at the postern - door when her husband fell and , feeling her way up to him in the darkness on her hands and knees , had been stained by his blood dripping down on her .
Of course it was argued on the other side that the blood - marks on her dress might have been caused by her kneeling down by her husband when she rushed out of her room ; but there was the open door below , and the fact that the finger - marks in the staircase all pointed upward .
The accused held to her statement for the first two days , in spite of its improbability ; but on the third day word was brought to her that Herv de Lanrivain , a young nobleman of the neighbourhood , had been arrested for complicity in the crime .
Two or three witnesses thereupon came forward to say that it was known throughout the country that Lanrivain had formerly been on good terms with the lady of Cornault ; but that he had been absent from Brittany for over a year , and people had ceased to associate their names .
The witnesses who made this statement were not of a very reputable sort .
One was an old herb - gatherer suspected of witchcraft , another a drunken clerk from a neighbouring parish , the third a half - witted shepherd who could be made to say anything ; and it was clear that the prosecution was not satisfied with its case , and would have liked to find more definite proof of Lanrivain 's complicity than the statement of the herb - gatherer , who swore to having seen him climbing the wall of the park on the night of the murder .
One way of patching out incomplete proofs in those days was to put some sort of pressure , moral or physical , on the accused person .
It is not clear what pressure was put on Anne de Cornault ; but on the third day , when she was brought in court , she " appeared weak and wandering , " and after being encouraged to collect herself and speak the truth , on her honour and the wounds of her Blessed Redeemer , she confessed that she had in fact gone down the stairs to speak with Herv de Lanrivain ( who denied everything ) , and had been surprised there by the sound of her husband 's fall .
That was better ; and the prosecution rubbed its hands with satisfaction .
The satisfaction increased when various dependents living at Kerfol were induced to say - with apparent sincerity - that during the year or two preceding his death their master had once more grown uncertain and irascible , and subject to the fits of brooding silence which his household had learned to dread before his second marriage .
This seemed to show that things had not been going well at Kerfol ; though no one could be found to say that there had been any signs of open disagreement between husband and wife .
Anne de Cornault , when questioned as to her reason for going down at night to open the door to Herv de Lanrivain , made an answer which must have sent a smile around the court .
She said it was because she was lonely and wanted to talk with the young man .
Was this the only reason ?
she was asked ; and replied : " Yes , by the Cross over your Lordships ' heads . "
" But why at midnight ? "
the court asked .
" Because I could see him in no other way . "
I can see the exchange of glances across the ermine collars under the Crucifix .
Anne de Cornault , further questioned , said that her married life had been extremely lonely : " desolate " was the word she used .
It was true that her husband seldom spoke harshly to her ; but there were days when he did not speak at all .
It was true that he had never struck or threatened her ; but he kept her like a prisoner at Kerfol , and when he rode away to Morlaix or Quimper or Rennes he set so close a watch on her that she could not pick a flower in the garden without having a waiting - woman at her heels .
" I am no Queen , to need such honours , " she once said to him ; and he had answered that a man who has a treasure does not leave the key in the lock when he goes out .
" Then take me with you , " she urged ; but to this he said that towns were pernicious places , and young wives better off at their own firesides .
" But what did you want to say to Herv de Lanrivain ? "
the court asked ; and she answered : " To ask him to take me away . "
" Ah - you confess that you went down to him with adulterous thoughts ? "
" Then why did you want him to take you away ? "
" Because I was afraid for my life . "
" Of whom were you afraid ? "
" Of my husband . "
" Why were you afraid of your husband ? "
" Because he had strangled my little dog . "
Another smile must have passed around the courtroom : in days when any nobleman had a right to hang his peasants - and most of them exercised it - pinching a pet animal 's wind - pipe was nothing to make a fuss about .
At this point one of the Judges , who appears to have had a certain sympathy for the accused , suggested that she should be allowed to explain herself in her own way ; and she thereupon made the following statement .
The first years of her marriage had been lonely ; but her husband had not been unkind to her .
If she had had a child she would not have been unhappy ; but the days were long , and it rained too much .
It was true that her husband , whenever he went away and left her , brought her a handsome present on his return ; but this did not make up for the loneliness .
At least nothing had , till he brought her the little brown dog from the East : after that she was much less unhappy .
Her husband seemed pleased that she was so fond of the dog ; he gave her leave to put her jewelled bracelet around its neck , and to keep it always with her .
One day she had fallen asleep in her room , with the dog at her feet , as his habit was .
Her feet were bare and resting on his back .
Suddenly she was waked by her husband : he stood beside her , smiling not unkindly .
" You look like my great - grandmother , Juliane de Cornault , lying in the chapel with her feet on a little dog , " he said .
The analogy sent a chill through her , but she laughed and answered : " Well , when I am dead you must put me beside her , carved in marble , with my dog at my feet . "
" Oho - we 'll wait and see , " he said , laughing also , but with his black brows close together .
" The dog is the emblem of fidelity . "
" And do you doubt my right to lie with mine at my feet ? "
" When I 'm in doubt I find out , " he answered .
" I am an old man , " he added , " and people say I make you lead a lonely life .
But I swear you shall have your monument if you earn it . "
" And I swear to be faithful , " she returned , " if only for the sake of having my little dog at my feet . "
Not long afterward he went on business to the Quimper Assizes ; and while he was away his aunt , the widow of a great nobleman of the duchy , came to spend a night at Kerfol on her way to the pardon of Ste .
Barbe .
She was a woman of piety and consequence , and much respected by Yves de Cornault , and when she proposed to Anne to go with her to Ste .
Barbe no one could object , and even the chaplain declared himself in favour of the pilgrimage .
So Anne set out for Ste .
Barbe , and there for the first time she talked with Herv de Lanrivain .
He had come once or twice to Kerfol with his father , but she had never before exchanged a dozen words with him .
They did not talk for more than five minutes now : it was under the chestnuts , as the procession was coming out of the chapel .
He said : " I pity you , " and she was surprised , for she had not supposed that any one thought her an object of pity .
He added : " Call for me when you need me , " and she smiled a little , but was glad afterward , and thought often of the meeting .
She confessed to having seen him three times afterward : not more .
How or where she would not say - one had the impression that she feared to implicate some one .
Their meetings had been rare and brief ; and at the last he had told her that he was starting the next day for a foreign country , on a mission which was not without peril and might keep him for many months absent .
He asked her for a remembrance , and she had none to give him but the collar about the little dog 's neck .
She was sorry afterward that she had given it , but he was so unhappy at going that she had not had the courage to refuse .
Her husband was away at the time .
When he returned a few days later he picked up the animal to pet it , and noticed that its collar was missing .
His wife told him that the dog had lost it in the undergrowth of the park , and that she and her maids had hunted a whole day for it .
It was true , she explained to the court , that she had made the maids search for the necklet - they all believed the dog had lost it in the park ....
Her husband made no comment , and that evening at supper he was in his usual mood , between good and bad : you could never tell which .
He talked a good deal , describing what he had seen and done at Rennes ; but now and then he stopped and looked hard at her , and when she went to bed she found her little dog strangled on her pillow .
The little thing was dead , but still warm ; she stooped to lift it , and her distress turned to horror when she discovered that it had been strangled by twisting twice round its throat the necklet she had given to Lanrivain .
The next morning at dawn she buried the dog in the garden , and hid the necklet in her breast .
She said nothing to her husband , then or later , and he said nothing to her ; but that day he had a peasant hanged for stealing a faggot in the park , and the next day he nearly beat to death a young horse he was breaking .
Winter set in , and the short days passed , and the long nights , one by one ; and she heard nothing of Herv de Lanrivain .
It might be that her husband had killed him ; or merely that he had been robbed of the necklet .
Day after day by the hearth among the spinning maids , night after night alone on her bed , she wondered and trembled .
Sometimes at table her husband looked across at her and smiled ; and then she felt sure that Lanrivain was dead .
She dared not try to get news of him , for she was sure her husband would find out if she did : she had an idea that he could find out anything .
Even when a witchwoman who was a noted seer , and could show you the whole world in her crystal , came to the castle for a night 's shelter , and the maids flocked to her , Anne held back .
The winter was long and black and rainy .
One day , in Yves de Cornault 's absence , some gypsies came to Kerfol with a troop of performing dogs .
Anne bought the smallest and cleverest , a white dog with a feathery coat and one blue and one brown eye .
It seemed to have been ill - treated by the gypsies , and clung to her plaintively when she took it from them .
That evening her husband came back , and when she went to bed she found the dog strangled on her pillow .
After that she said to herself that she would never have another dog ; but one bitter cold evening a poor lean greyhound was found whining at the castle - gate , and she took him in and forbade the maids to speak of him to her husband .
She hid him in a room that no one went to , smuggled food to him from her own plate , made him a warm bed to lie on and petted him like a child .
Yves de Cornault came home , and the next day she found the greyhound strangled on her pillow .
She wept in secret , but said nothing , and resolved that even if she met a dog dying of hunger she would never bring him into the castle ; but one day she found a young sheepdog , a brindled puppy with good blue eyes , lying with a broken leg in the snow of the park .
Yves de Cornault was at Bennes , and she brought the dog in , warmed and fed it , tied up its leg and hid it in the castle till her husband 's return .
The day before , she gave it to a peasant woman who lived a long way off , and paid her handsomely to care for it and say nothing ; but that night she heard a whining and scratching at her door , and when she opened it the lame puppy , drenched and shivering , jumped up on her with little sobbing barks .
She hid him in her bed , and the next morning was about to have him taken back to the peasant woman when she heard her husband ride into the court .
She shut the dog in a chest , and went down to receive him .
An hour or two later , when she returned to her room , the puppy lay strangled on her pillow .... After that she dared not make a pet of any other dog ; and her loneliness became almost unendurable .
Sometimes , when she crossed the court of the castle , and thought no one was looking , she stopped to pat the old pointer at the gate .
But one day as she was caressing him her husband came out of the chapel ; and the next day the old dog was gone ....
This curious narrative was not told in one sitting of the court , or received without impatience and incredulous comment .
It was plain that the Judges were surprised by its puerility , and that it did not help the accused in the eyes of the public .
It was an odd tale , certainly ; but what did it prove ?
That Yves de Cornault disliked dogs , and that his wife , to gratify her own fancy , persistently ignored this dislike .
As for pleading this trivial disagreement as an excuse for her relations - whatever their nature - with her supposed accomplice , the argument was so absurd that her own lawyer manifestly regretted having let her make use of it , and tried several times to cut short her story .
But she went on to the end , with a kind of hypnotized insistence , as though the scenes she evoked were so real to her that she had forgotten where she was and imagined herself to be re - living them .
At length the Judge who had previously shown a certain kindness to her said ( leaning forward a little , one may suppose , from his row of dozing colleagues ): " Then you would have us believe that you murdered your husband because he would not let you keep a pet dog ? "
" I did not murder my husband . "
" Who did , then ?
Herv de Lanrivain ? "
" No . "
" Who then ?
Can you tell us ? "
" Yes , I can tell you .
The dogs - " At that point she was carried out of the court in a swoon .
It was evident that her lawyer tried to get her to abandon this line of defense .
Possibly her explanation , whatever it was , had seemed convincing when she poured it out to him in the heat of their first private colloquy ; but now that it was exposed to the cold daylight of judicial scrutiny , and the banter of the town , he was thoroughly ashamed of it , and would have sacrificed her without a scruple to save his professional reputation .
But the obstinate Judge - who perhaps , after all , was more inquisitive than kindly - evidently wanted to hear the story out , and she was ordered , the next day , to continue her deposition .
She said that after the disappearance of the old watchdog nothing particular happened for a month or two .
Her husband was much as usual : she did not remember any special incident .
But one evening a pedlar woman came to the castle and was selling trinkets to the maids .
She had no heart for trinkets , but she stood looking on while the women made their choice .
And then , she did not know how , but the pedlar coaxed her into buying for herself a pear - shaped pomander with a strong scent in it - she had once seen something of the kind on a gypsy woman .
She had no desire for the pomander , and did not know why she had bought it .
The pedlar said that whoever wore it had the power to read the future ; but she did not really believe that , or care much either .
However , she bought the thing and took it up to her room , where she sat turning it about in her hand .
Then the strange scent attracted her and she began to wonder what kind of spice was in the box .
She opened it and found a grey bean rolled in a strip of paper ; and on the paper she saw a sign she knew , and a message from Herv de Lanrivain , saying that he was at home again and would be at the door in the court that night after the moon had set .... She burned the paper and sat down to think .
It was nightfall , and her husband was at home .... She had no way of warning Lanrivain , and there was nothing to do but to wait .... At this point I fancy the drowsy court - room beginning to wake up .
Even to the oldest hand on the bench there must have been a certain relish in picturing the feelings of a woman on receiving such a message at nightfall from a man living twenty miles away , to whom she had no means of sending a warning .... She was not a clever woman , I imagine ; and as the first result of her cogitation she appears to have made the mistake of being , that evening , too kind to her husband .
She could not ply him with wine , according to the traditional expedient , for though he drank heavily at times he had a strong head ; and when he drank beyond its strength it was because he chose to , and not because a woman coaxed him .
Not his wife , at any rate - she was an old story by now .
As I read the case , I fancy there was no feeling for her left in him but the hatred occasioned by his supposed dishonour .
At any rate , she tried to call up her old graces ; but early in the evening he complained of pains and fever , and left the hall to go up to the closet where he sometimes slept .
His servant carried him a cup of hot wine , and brought back word that he was sleeping and not to be disturbed ; and an hour later , when Anne lifted the tapestry and listened at his door , she heard his loud regular breathing .
She thought it might be a feint , and stayed a long time barefooted in the passage , her ear to the crack ; but the breathing went on too steadily and naturally to be other than that of a man in a sound sleep .
She crept back to her room reassured , and stood in the window watching the moon set through the trees of the park .
The sky was misty and starless , and after the moon went down the night was black as pitch .
She knew the time had come , and stole along the passage , past her husband 's door - where she stopped again to listen to his breathing - to the top of the stairs .
There she paused a moment , and assured herself that no one was following her ; then she began to go down the stairs in the darkness .
They were so steep and winding that she had to go very slowly , for fear of stumbling .
Her one thought was to get the door unbolted , tell Lanrivain to make his escape , and hasten back to her room .
She had tried the bolt earlier in the evening , and managed to put a little grease on it ; but nevertheless , when she drew it , it gave a squeak ... not loud , but it made her heart stop ; and the next minute , overhead , she heard a noise .... " What noise ? "
the prosecution interposed .
" My husband 's voice calling out my name and cursing me . "
" What did you hear after that ? "
" A terrible scream and a fall . "
" Where was Herv de Lanrivain at this time ? "
" He was standing outside in the court .
I just made him out in the darkness .
I told him for God 's sake to go , and then I pushed the door shut . "
" What did you do next ? "
" I stood at the foot of the stairs and listened . "
" What did you hear ? "
" I heard dogs snarling and panting . "
( Visible discouragement of the bench , boredom of the public , and exasperation of the lawyer for the defense .
Dogs again - !
But the inquisitive Judge insisted . )
" What dogs ? "
She bent her head and spoke so low that she had to be told to repeat her answer : " I do n't know . "
" How do you mean - you do n't know ? "
" I do n't know what dogs .... " The Judge again intervened : " Try to tell us exactly what happened .
How long did you remain at the foot of the stairs ? "
" Only a few minutes . "
" And what was going on meanwhile overhead ? "
" The dogs kept on snarling and panting .
Once or twice he cried out .
I think he moaned once .
Then he was quiet . "
" Then what happened ? "
" Then I heard a sound like the noise of a pack when the wolf is thrown to them - gulping and lapping . "
( There was a groan of disgust and repulsion through the court , and another attempted intervention by the distracted lawyer .
But the inquisitive Judge was still inquisitive . )
" And all the while you did not go up ? "
" Yes - I went up then - to drive them off . "
" The dogs ? "
" Yes . "
" Well - ? "
" When I got there it was quite dark .
I found my husband 's flint and steel and struck a spark .
I saw him lying there .
He was dead . "
" And the dogs ? "
" The dogs were gone . "
" Gone - whereto ? "
" I do n't know .
There was no way out - and there were no dogs at Kerfol . "
She straightened herself to her full height , threw her arms above her head , and fell down on the stone floor with a long scream .
There was a moment of confusion in the court - room .
Some one on the bench was heard to say : " This is clearly a case for the ecclesiastical authorities " - and the prisoner 's lawyer doubtless jumped at the suggestion .
After this , the trial loses itself in a maze of cross - questioning and squabbling .
Every witness who was called corroborated Anne de Cornault 's statement that there were no dogs at Kerfol : had been none for several months .
The master of the house had taken a dislike to dogs , there was no denying it But , on the other hand , at the inquest , there had been long and bitter discussions as to the nature of the dead man 's wounds .
One of the surgeons called in had spoken of marks that looked like bites .
The suggestion of witchcraft was revived , and the opposing lawyers hurled tomes of necromancy at each other .
At last Anne de Cornault was brought back into court - at the instance of the same Judge - and asked if she knew where the dogs she spoke of could have come from .
On the body of her Redeemer she swore that she did not .
Then the Judge put his final question : " If the dogs you think you heard had been known to you , do you think you would have recognized them by their barking ? "
" Yes . "
" Did you recognize them ? "
" Yes . "
" What dogs do you take them to have been ? "
" My dead dogs , " she said in a whisper .... She was taken out of court , not to reappear there again .
There was some kind of ecclesiastical investigation , and the end of the business was that the Judges disagreed with each other , and with the ecclesiastical committee , and that Anne de Cornault was finally handed over to the keeping of her husband 's family , who shut her up in the keep of Kerfol , where she is said to have died many years later , a harmless mad - woman .
So ends her story .
As for that of Herv de Lanrivain , I had only to apply to his collateral descendant for its subsequent details .
The evidence against the young man being insufficient , and his family influence in the duchy considerable , he was set free , and left soon afterward for Paris .
He was probably in no mood for a worldly life , and he appears to have come almost immediately under the influence of the famous M. Arnauld d'Andilly and the gentlemen of Port Royal .
A year or two later he was received into their Order , and without achieving any particular distinction he followed its good and evil fortunes till his death some twenty years later .
Lanrivain showed me a portrait of him by a pupil of Philippe de Champaigne : sad eyes , an impulsive mouth and a narrow brow .
Poor Herv de Lanrivain : it was a grey ending .
Yet as I looked at his stiff and sallow effigy , in the dark dress of the Jansniste , I almost found myself envying his fate .
After all , in the course of his life two great things had happened to him : he had loved romantically , and he must have talked with Pascal .... End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Kerfol , by Edith Wharton
The two months I spent at Newport with Aunt Eliza Huell , who had been ordered to the sea - side for the benefit of her health , were the months that created all that is dramatic in my destiny .
My aunt was troublesome , for she was not only out of health , but in a lawsuit .
She wrote to me , for we lived apart , asking me to accompany her - not because she was fond of me , or wished to give me pleasure , but because I was useful in various ways .
Mother insisted upon my accepting her invitation , not because she loved her late husband 's sister , but because she thought it wise to cotton to her in every particular , for Aunt Eliza was rich , and we - two lone women - were poor .
I gave my music - pupils a longer and earlier vacation than usual , took a week to arrange my wardrobe - for I made my own dresses - and then started for New York , with the five dollars which Aunt Eliza had sent for my fare thither .
I arrived at her house in Bond Street at 7 A.M. , and found her man James in conversation with the milkman .
He informed me that Miss Huell was very bad , and that the housekeeper was still in bed .
I supposed that Aunt Eliza was in bed also , but I had hardly entered the house when I heard her bell ring as she only could ring it - with an impatient jerk .
" She wants hot milk , " said James , " and the man has just come . "
I laid my bonnet down , and went to the kitchen .
Saluting the cook , who was an old acquaintance , and who told me that the " divil " had been in the range that morning , I took a pan , into which I poured some milk , and held it over the gaslight till it was hot ; then I carried it up to Aunt Eliza .
" Here is your milk , Aunt Eliza .
You have sent for me to help you , and I begin with the earliest opportunity . "
" I looked for you an hour ago .
Ring the bell . "
I rang it .
" Your mother is well , I suppose .
She would have sent you , though , had she been sick in bed . "
" She has done so .
She thinks better of my coming than I do . "
The housekeeper , Mrs.
Roll , came in , and Aunt Eliza politely requested her to have breakfast for her niece as soon as possible .
" I do not go down of mornings yet , " said Aunt Eliza , " but Mrs.
Roll presides .
See that the coffee is good , Roll . "
" It is good generally , Miss Huell . "
" You see that Margaret brought me my milk . "
" Ahem ! "
said Mrs.
Roll , marching out .
At the beginning of each visit to Aunt Eliza I was in the habit of dwelling on the contrast between her way of living and ours .
We lived from " hand to mouth . "
Every thing about her wore a hereditary air ; for she lived in my grandfather 's house , and it was the same as in his day .
If I was at home when these contrasts occurred to me I should have felt angry ; as it was , I felt them as in a dream - the china , the silver , the old furniture , and the excellent fare soothed me .
In the middle of the day Aunt Eliza came down stairs , and after she had received a visit from her doctor , decided to go to Newport on Saturday .
It was Wednesday ; and I could , if I chose , make any addition to my wardrobe .
I had none to make , I informed her .
What were my dresses ?
- had I a black silk ?
she asked .
I had no black silk , and thought one would be unnecessary for hot weather .
" Who ever heard of a girl of twenty - four having no black silk !
You have slimsy muslins , I dare say ? "
" Yes . "
" And you like them ? "
" For present wear . "
That afternoon she sent Mrs.
Roll out , who returned with a splendid heavy silk for me , which Aunt Eliza said should be made before Saturday , and it was .
I went to a fashionable dress - maker of her recommending , and on Friday it came home , beautifully made and trimmed with real lace .
" Even the Pushers could find no fault with this , " said Aunt Eliza , turning over the sleeves and smoothing the lace .
Somehow she smuggled into the house a white straw - bonnet , with white roses ; also a handsome mantilla .
She held the bonnet before me with a nod , and deposited it again in the box , which made a part of the luggage for Newport .
On Sunday morning we arrived in Newport , and went to a quiet hotel in the town .
James was with us , but Mrs.
Roll was left in Bond Street , in charge of the household .
Monday was spent in an endeavor to make an arrangement regarding the hire of a coach and coachman .
Several livery - stable keepers were in attendance , but nothing was settled , till I suggested that Aunt Eliza should send for her own carriage .
James was sent back the next day , and returned on Thursday with coach , horses , and William her coachman .
That matter being finished , and the trunks being unpacked , she decided to take her first bath in the sea , expecting me to support her through the trying ordeal of the surf .
As we were returning from the beach we met a carriage containing a number of persons with a family resemblance .
When Aunt Eliza saw them she angrily exclaimed , " Am I to see those Uxbridges every day ? "
Of the Uxbridges this much I knew - that the two brothers Uxbridge were the lawyers of her opponents in the lawsuit which had existed three or four years .
I had never felt any interest in it , though I knew that it was concerning a tract of ground in the city which had belonged to my grandfather , and which had , since his day , become very valuable .
Litigation was a habit of the Huell family .
So the sight of the Uxbridge family did not agitate me as it did Aunt Eliza .
" The sly , methodical dogs !
but I shall beat Lemorne yet ! "
" How will you amuse yourself then , aunt ? "
" I 'll adopt some boys to inherit what I shall save from his clutches . "
The bath fatigued her so she remained in her room for the rest of the day ; but she kept me busy with a hundred trifles .
I wrote for her , computed interest , studied out bills of fare , till four o'clock came , and with it a fog .
Nevertheless I must ride on the Avenue , and the carriage was ordered .
" Wear your silk , Margaret ; it will just about last your visit through - the fog will use it up . "
" I am glad of it , " I answered .
" You will ride every day .
Wear the bonnet I bought for you also . "
" Certainly ; but wo n't that go quicker in the fog than the dress ? "
" Maybe ; but wear it . "
I rode every day afterward , from four to six , in the black silk , the mantilla , and the white straw .
When Aunt Eliza went she was so on the alert for the Uxbridge family carriage that she could have had little enjoyment of the ride .
Rocks never were a passion with her , she said , nor promontories , chasms , or sand .
She came to Newport to be washed with salt - water ; when she had washed up to the doctor 's prescription she should leave , as ignorant of the peculiar pleasures of Newport as when she arrived .
She had no fancy for its conglomerate societies , its literary cottages , its parvenue suits of rooms , its saloon habits , and its bathing herds .
I considered the rides a part of the contract of what was expected in my two months ' performance .
I did not dream that I was enjoying them , any more than I supposed myself to be enjoying a sea - bath while pulling Aunt Eliza to and fro in the surf .
Nothing in the life around me stirred me , nothing in nature attracted me .
I liked the fog ; somehow it seemed to emanate from me instead of rolling up from the ocean , and to represent me .
Whether I went alone or not , the coachman was ordered to drive a certain round ; after that I could extend the ride in whatever direction I pleased , but I always said , " Anywhere , William . "
One afternoon , which happened to be a bright one , I was riding on the road which led to the glen , when I heard the screaming of a flock of geese which were waddling across the path in front of the horses .
I started , for I was asleep probably , and , looking forward , saw the Uxbridge carriage , filled with ladies and children , coming toward me ; and by it rode a gentleman on horseback .
His horse was rearing among the hissing geese , but neither horse nor geese appeared to engage him ; his eyes were fixed upon me .
The horse swerved so near that its long mane almost brushed against me .
By an irresistible impulse I laid my ungloved hand upon it , but did not look at the rider .
Carriage and horseman passed on , and William resumed his pace .
A vague idea took possession of me that I had seen the horseman before on my various drives .
I had a vision of a man galloping on a black horse out of the fog , and into it again .
I was very sure , however , that I had never seen him on so pleasant a day as this !
William did not bring his horses to time ; it was after six when I went into Aunt Eliza 's parlor , and found her impatient for her tea and toast .
She was crosser than the occasion warranted ; but I understood it when she gave me the outlines of a letter she desired me to write to her lawyer in New York .
Something had turned up , he had written her ; the Uxbridges believed that they had ferreted out what would go against her .
I told her that I had met the Uxbridge carriage .
" One of them is in New York ; how else could they be giving me trouble just now ? "
" There was a gentleman on horseback beside the carriage . "
" Did he look mean and cunning ? "
" He did not wear his legal beaver up , I think ; but he rode a fine horse and sat it well . "
" A lawyer on horseback should , like the beggar of the adage , ride to the devil . "
" Your business now is the ' Lemorne ? ' "
" You know it is . "
" I did not know but that you had found something besides to litigate . "
" It must have been Edward Uxbridge that you saw .
He is the brain of the firm . "
" You expect Mr. Van Horn ? "
" Oh , he must come ; I can not be writing letters . "
We had been in Newport two weeks when Mr. Van Horn , Aunt Eliza 's lawyer , came .
He said that he would see Mr. Edward Uxbridge .
Between them they might delay a term , which he thought would be best .
" Would Miss Huell ever be ready for a compromise ? "
he jestingly asked .
" Are you suspicious ? "
she inquired .
" No ; but the Uxbridge chaps are clever . "
He dined with us ; and at four o'clock Aunt Eliza graciously asked him to take a seat in the carriage with me , making some excuse for not going herself .
" Hullo ! "
said Mr. Van Horn when we had reached the country road ; " there 's Uxbridge now . "
And he waved his hand to him .
It was indeed the black horse and the same rider that I had met .
He reined up beside us , and shook hands with Mr. Van Horn .
" We are required to answer this new complaint ? "
said Mr. Van Horn .
Mr. Uxbridge nodded .
" And after that the judgment ? "
Mr. Uxbridge laughed .
" I wish that certain gore of land had been sunk instead of being mapped in 1835 . "
" The surveyor did his business well enough , I am sure . "
They talked together in a low voice for a few minutes , and then Mr. Van Horn leaned back in his seat again .
" Allow me , " he said , " to introduce you , Uxbridge , to Miss Margaret Huell , Miss Huell 's niece .
Huell vs. Brown , you know , " he added , in an explanatory tone ; for I was Huell vs. Brown 's daughter .
" Oh ! "
said Mr. Uxbridge bowing , and looking at me gravely .
I looked at him also ; he was a pale , stern - looking man , and forty years old certainly .
I derived the impression at once that he had a domineering disposition , perhaps from the way in which he controlled his horse .
" Nice beast that , " said Mr. Van Horn .
" Yes , " he answered , laying his hand on its mane , so that the action brought immediately to my mind the recollection that I had done so too .
I would not meet his eye again , however .
" How long shall you remain , Uxbridge ? "
" I do n't know .
You are not interested in the lawsuit , Miss Huell ? "
he said , putting on his hat .
" Not in the least ; nothing of mine is involved . "
" We 'll gain it for your portion yet , Miss Margaret , " said Mr. Van Horn , nodding to Mr. Uxbridge , and bidding William drive on .
He returned the next day , and we settled into the routine of hotel life .
A few mornings after , she sent me to a matinee , which was given by some of the Opera people , who were in Newport strengthening the larynx with applications of brine .
When the concert was half over , and the audience were making the usual hum and stir , I saw Mr. Uxbridge against a pillar , with his hands incased in pearl - colored gloves , and holding a shiny hat .
He turned half away when he caught my eye , and then darted toward me .
" You have not been much more interested in the music than you are in the lawsuit , " he said , seating himself beside me .
" The tutoyer of the Italian voice is agreeable , however . "
" It makes one dreamy . "
" A child . "
" Yes , a child ; not a man nor a woman . "
" I teach music .
I can not dream over ' one , two , three . ' "
" You - a music teacher ! "
" For six years . "
I was aware that he looked at me from head to foot , and I picked at the lace on my invariable black silk ; but what did it matter whether I owned that I was a genteel pauper , representing my aunt 's position for two months , or not ?
" Where ? "
" In Waterbury . "
" Waterbury differs from Newport . "
" I suppose so . "
" You suppose ! "
A young gentleman sauntered by us , and Mr. Uxbridge called to him to look up the Misses Uxbridge , his nieces , on the other side of the hall .
" Paterfamilias Uxbridge has left his brood in my charge , " he said .
" I try to do my duty , " and he held out a twisted pearl - colored glove , which he had pulled off while talking .
What white nervous fingers he had !
I thought they might pinch like steel .
" You suppose , " he repeated .
" I do not look at Newport . "
" Have you observed Waterbury ? "
" I observe what is in my sphere . "
" Oh ! "
He was silent then .
The second part of the concert began ; but I could not compose myself to appreciation .
Either the music or I grew chaotic .
So many tumultuous sounds I heard - of hope , doubt , inquiry , melancholy , and desire ; or did I feel the emotions which these words express ?
Or was there magnetism stealing into me from the quiet man beside me ?
He left me with a bow before the concert was over , and I saw him making his way out of the hall when it was finished .
I had been sent in the carriage , of course ; but several carriages were in advance of it before the walk , and I waited there for William to drive up .
When he did so , I saw by the oscillatory motion of his head , though his arms and whiphand were perfectly correct , that he was inebriated .
It was his first occasion of meeting fellow - coachmen in full dress , and the occasion had proved too much for him .
My hand , however , was on the coach door , when I heard Mr. Uxbridge say , at my elbow , " It is not safe for you . "
" Oh , Sir , it is in the programme that I ride home from the concert . "
And I prepared to step in .
" I shall sit on the box , then . "
" But your nieces ? "
" They are walking home , squired by a younger knight . "
Aunt Eliza would say , I thought , " Needs must when a lawyer drives " ; and I concluded to allow him to have his way , telling him that he was taking a great deal of trouble .
He thought it would be less if he were allowed to sit inside ; both ways were unsafe .
Nothing happened .
William drove well from habit ; but James was obliged to assist him to dismount .
Mr. Uxbridge waited a moment at the door , and so there was quite a little sensation , which spread its ripples till Aunt Eliza was reached .
She sent for William , whose only excuse was " dampness . "
" Uxbridge knew my carriage , of course , " she said , with a complacent voice .
" He knew me , " I replied .
" You do not look like the Huells . "
" I look precisely like the young woman to whom he was introduced by Mr. Van Horn . "
" Oh ho ! "
" He thought it unsafe for me to come alone under William 's charge . "
" Ah ha ! "
No more was said on the subject of his coming home with me .
Aunt Eliza had several fits of musing in the course of the evening while I read aloud to her , which had no connection with the subject of the book .
As I put it down she said that it would be well for me to go to church the next day .
I acquiesced , but remarked that my piety would not require the carriage , and that I preferred to walk .
Besides , it would be well for William and James to attend divine service .
She could not spare James , and thought William had better clean the harness , by way of penance .
The morning proved to be warm and sunny .
I donned a muslin dress of home manufacture and my own bonnet , and started for church .
I had walked but a few paces when the consciousness of being free and alone struck me .
I halted , looked about me , and concluded that I would not go to church , but walk into the fields .
I had no knowledge of the whereabouts of the fields ; but I walked straight forward , and after a while came upon some barren fields , cropping with coarse rocks , along which ran a narrow road .
I turned into it , and soon saw beyond the rough coast the blue ring of the ocean - vast , silent , and splendid in the sunshine .
I found a seat on the ruins of an old stone - wall , among some tangled bushes and briers .
There being no Aunt Eliza to pull through the surf , and no animated bathers near , I discovered the beauty of the sea , and that I loved it .
Presently I heard the steps of a horse , and , to my astonishment , Mr. Uxbridge rode past .
I was glad he did not know me .
I watched him as he rode slowly down the road , deep in thought .
He let drop the bridle , and the horse stopped , as if accustomed to the circumstance , and pawed the ground gently , or yawed his neck for pastime .
Mr. Uxbridge folded his arms and raised his head to look seaward .
It seemed to me as if he were about to address the jury .
I had dropped so entirely from my observance of the landscape that I jumped when he resumed the bridle and turned his horse to come back .
I slipped from my seat to look among the bushes , determined that he should not recognize me ; but my attempt was a failure - he did not ride by the second time .
" Miss Huell ! "
And he jumped from his saddle , slipping his arm through the bridle .
" I am a runaway .
What do you think of the Fugitive Slave Bill ? "
" I approve of returning property to its owners . "
" The sea must have been God 's temple first , instead of the groves . "
" I believe the Saurians were an Orthodox tribe . "
" Did you stop yonder to ponder the sea ? "
" I was pondering ' Lemorne vs.
Huell . ' "
He looked at me earnestly , and then gave a tug at the bridle , for his steed was inclined to make a crude repast from the bushes .
" How was it that I did not detect you at once ? "
he continued .
" My apparel is Waterbury apparel . "
" Ah ! "
We walked up the road slowly till we came to the end of it ; then I stopped for him to understand that I thought it time for him to leave me .
He sprang into the saddle .
" Give us good - by ! "
he said , bringing his horse close to me .
" We are not on equal terms ; I feel too humble afoot to salute you . "
" Put your foot on the stirrup then . "
A leaf stuck in the horse 's forelock , and I pulled it off and waved it in token of farewell .
A powerful light shot into his eyes when he saw my hand close on the leaf .
" May I come and see you ? "
he asked , abruptly .
" I will . "
" I shall say neither ' No ' or ' Yes . ' "
He rode on at a quick pace , and I walked homeward forgetting the sense of liberty I had started with , and proceeded straightway to Aunt Eliza .
" I have not been to church , aunt , but to walk beyond the town ; it was not so nominated in the bond , but I went .
The taste of freedom was so pleasant that I warn you there is danger of my ' striking . '
When will you have done with Newport ? "
" I am pleased with Newport now , " she answered , with a curious intonation .
" I like it . "
" I do also . "
Her keen eyes sparkled .
" Did you ever like anything when you were with me before ? "
" Never .
I will tell you why I like it : because I have met , and shall probably meet , Mr. Uxbridge .
I saw him to - day .
He asked permission to visit me . "
" Let him come . "
" He will come . "
But we did not see him either at the hotel or when we went abroad .
Aunt Eliza rode with me each afternoon , and each morning we went to the beach .
She engaged me every moment when at home , and I faithfully performed all my tasks .
I clapped to the door on self - investigation - locked it against any analysis or reasoning upon any circumstance connected with Mr. Uxbridge .
The only piece of treachery to my code that I was guilty of was the putting of the leaf which I brought home on Sunday between the leaves of that poem whose motto is , " Mariana in the moated grange . "
On Saturday morning , nearly a week after I saw him on my walk , Aunt Eliza proposed that we should go to Turo Street on a shopping excursion ; she wanted a cap , and various articles besides .
As we went into a large shop I saw Mr. Uxbridge at a counter buying gloves ; her quick eye caught sight of him , and she edged away , saying she would look at some goods on the other side ; I might wait where I was .
As he turned to go out he saw me and stopped .
" I have been in New York since I saw you , " he said .
" Mr. Lemorne sent for me . "
" There is my aunt , " I said .
He shrugged his shoulders .
" I shall not go away soon again , " he remarked .
" I missed Newport greatly . "
I made some foolish reply , and kept my eyes on Aunt Eliza , who dawdled unaccountably .
He appeared amused , and after a little talk went away .
Aunt Eliza 's purchase was a rose - colored moire antique , which she said was to be made for me ; for Mrs. Bliss , one of our hotel acquaintances , had offered to chaperon me to the great ball which would come off in a few days , and she had accepted the offer for me .
" There will be no chance for you to take a walk instead , " she finished with .
" I can not dance , you know . "
" But you will be there . "
I was sent to a dress - maker of Mrs. Bliss 's recommending ; but I ordered the dress to be made after my own design , long plain sleeves , and high plain corsage , and requested that it should not be sent home till the evening of the ball .
Before it came off Mr. Uxbridge called , and was graciously received by Aunt Eliza , who could be gracious to all except her relatives .
I could not but perceive , however , that they watched each other in spite of their lively conversation .
To me he was deferential , but went over the ground of our acquaintance as if it had been the most natural thing in the world .
But for my life - long habit of never calling in question the behavior of those I came in contact with , and of never expecting any thing different from that I received , I might have wondered over his visit .
Every person 's individuality was sacred to me , from the fact , perhaps , that my own individuality had never been respected by any person with whom I had any relation - not even by my own mother .
After Mr. Uxbridge went , I asked Aunt Eliza if she thought he looked mean and cunning ?
She laughed , and replied that she was bound to think that Mr. Lemorne 's lawyer could not look otherwise .
When , on the night of the ball , I presented myself in the rose - colored moire antique for her inspection , she raised her eyebrows , but said nothing about it .
" I need not be careful of it , I suppose , aunt ? "
" Spill as much wine and ice - cream on it as you like . "
In the dressing - room Mrs. Bliss surveyed me .
" I think I like this mass of rose - color , " she said .
" Your hair comes out in contrast so brilliantly .
Why , you have not a single ornament on ! "
" It is so easy to dress without . "
This was all the conversation we had together during the evening , except when she introduced some acquaintance to fulfill her matronizing duties .
As I was no dancer I was left alone most of the time , and amused myself by gliding from window to window along the wall , that it might not be observed that I was a fixed flower .
Still I suffered the annoyance of being stared at by wandering squads of young gentlemen , the " curled darlings " of the ball - room .
I borrowed Mrs. Bliss 's fan in one of her visits for a protection .
With that , and the embrasure of a remote window where I finally stationed myself , I hoped to escape further notice .
The music of the celebrated band which played between the dances recalled the chorus of spirits which charmed Faust : " And the fluttering Ribbons of drapery Cover the plains , Cover the bowers , Where lovers , Deep in thought , Give themselves for life . "
The voice of Mrs. Bliss broke its spell .
" I bring an old friend , Miss Huell , and he tells me an acquaintance of yours . "
It was Mr. Uxbridge .
" I had no thought of meeting you , Miss Huell . "
And he coolly took the seat beside me in the window , leaving to Mrs. Bliss the alternative of standing or of going away ; she chose the latter .
" I saw you as soon as I came in , " he said , " gliding from window to window , like a vessel hugging the shore in a storm . "
" With colors at half - mast ; I have no dancing partner . "
" How many have observed you ? "
" Several young gentlemen . "
" Moths . "
" Oh no , butterflies . "
" They must keep away now . "
" Are you Rhadamanthus ? "
" And Charon , too .
I would have you row in the same boat with me . "
" Now you are fishing . "
" Wo n't you compliment me .
Did I ever look better ? "
His evening costume was becoming , but he looked pale , and weary , and disturbed .
But if we were engaged for a tournament , as his behavior indicated , I must do my best at telling .
So I told him that he never looked better , and asked him how I looked .
He would look at me presently , he said , and decide .
Mrs. Bliss skimmed by us with nods and smiles ; as she vanished our eyes followed her , and we talked vaguely on various matters , sounding ourselves and each other .
When a furious redowa set in which cut our conversation into rhythm he pushed up the window and said , " Look out . "
I turned my face to him to do so , and saw the moon at the full , riding through the strip of sky which our vision commanded .
From the moon our eyes fell on each other .
After a moment 's silence , during which I returned his steadfast gaze , for I could not help it , he said : " If we understand the impression we make upon each other , what must be said ? "
I made no reply , but fanned myself , neither looking at the moon , nor upon the redowa , nor upon any thing .
He took the fan from me .
" Speak of yourself , " he said .
" Speak you . "
" I am what I seem , a man within your sphere .
By all the accidents of position and circumstance suited to it .
Have you not learned it ? "
" I am not what I seem .
I never wore so splendid a dress as this till tonight , and shall not again . "
He gave the fan such a twirl that its slender sticks snapped , and it dropped like the broken wing of a bird .
" Mr. Uxbridge , that fan belongs to Mrs.
Bliss . "
He threw it out of the window .
" You have courage , fidelity , and patience - this character with a passionate soul .
I am sure that you have such a soul ? "
" I do not know . "
" I have fallen in love with you .
It happened on the very day when I passed you on the way to the Glen .
I never got away from the remembrance of seeing your hand on the mane of my horse . "
He waited for me to speak , but I could not ; the balance of my mind was gone .
Why should this have happened to me - a slave ?
As it had happened , why did I not feel exultant in the sense of power which the chance for freedom with him should give ?
" What is it , Margaret ?
your face is as sad as death . "
" How do you call me ' Margaret ? ' "
" As I would call my wife - Margaret . "
He rose and stood before me to screen my face from observation .
I supposed so , and endeavored to stifle my agitation .
" You are better , " he said , presently .
" Come go with me and get some refreshment . "
And he beckoned to Mrs. Bliss , who was down the hall with an unwieldy gentleman .
" Will you go to supper now ? "
she asked .
" We are only waiting for you , " Mr. Uxbridge answered , offering me his arm .
When we emerged into the blaze and glitter of the supper - room I sought refuge in the shadow of Mrs. Bliss 's companion , for it seemed to me that I had lost my own .
" Drink this Champagne , " said Mr. Uxbridge .
" Pay no attention to the Colonel on your left ; he wo n't expect it . "
" Neither must you . "
" Drink . "
The Champagne did not prevent me from reflecting on the fact that he had not yet asked whether I loved him .
The spirit chorus again floated through my mind : " Where lovers , Deep in thought , Give themselves for life . "
I was not allowed to give myself - I was taken .
" No heel - taps , " he whispered , " to the bottom quaff . "
" Take me home , will you ? "
" Mrs. Bliss is not ready . "
" Tell her that I must go . "
He went behind her chair and whispered something , and she nodded to me to go without her .
When her carriage came up , I think he gave the coachman an order to drive home in a round - about way , for we were a long time reaching it .
I kept my face to the window , and he made no effort to divert my attention .
When we came to a street whose thick rows of trees shut out the moonlight my eager soul longed to leap out into the dark and demand of him his heart , soul , life , for me .
I struck him lightly on the shoulder ; he seized my hand .
" Oh , I know you , Margaret ; you are mine ! "
" We are at the hotel . "
He sent the carriage back , and said that he would leave me at my aunt 's door .
He wished that he could see her then .
Was it magic that made her open the door before I reached it ?
" Have you come on legal business ? "
she asked him .
" You have divined what I come for . "
" Step in , step in ; it 's very late .
I should have been in bed but for neuralgia .
Did Mr. Uxbridge come home with you , Margaret ? "
" Yes , in Mrs. Bliss 's carriage ; I wished to come before she was ready to leave . "
" Well , Mr. Uxbridge is old enough for your protector , certainly . "
" I am forty , ma'am . "
" Do you want Margaret ? "
" I do . "
" You know exactly how much is involved in your client 's suit ? "
" Exactly . "
" You know also that his claim is an unjust one . "
" Do I ? "
" I shall not be poor if I lose ; if I gain , Margaret will be rich . "
" ' Margaret will be rich , ' " he repeated , absently .
" What !
have you changed your mind respecting the orphans , aunt ? "
" She has , and is - nothing , " she went on , not heeding my remark .
" Her father married below his station ; when he died his wife fell back to her place - for he spent his fortune - and there she and Margaret must remain , unless Lemorne is defeated . "
" Aunt , for your succinct biography of my position many thanks . "
" Sixty thousand dollars , " she continued .
" Van Horn tells me that , as yet , the firm of Uxbridge Brothers have only an income - no capital . "
" It is true , " he answered , musingly .
The clock on the mantle struck two .
" A thousand dollars for every year of my life , " she said .
" You and I , Uxbridge , know the value and beauty of money .
" Yes , there is beauty in money , and " - looking at me - " beauty without it . "
" The striking of the clock , " I soliloquized , " proves that this scene is not a phantasm . "
" Margaret is fatigued , " he said , rising .
" May I come to - morrow ? "
" It is my part only , " replied Aunt Eliza , " to see that she is , or is not , Cinderella . "
" If you have ever thought of me , aunt , as an individual , you must have seen that I am not averse to ashes . "
He held my hand a moment , and then kissed me with a kiss of appropriation .
" He is in love with you , " she said , after he had gone .
" I think I know him .
He has found beauty ignorant of itself ; he will teach you to develop it . "
The next morning Mr. Uxbridge had an interview with Aunt Eliza before he saw me .
When we were alone I asked him how her eccentricities affected him ; he could not but consider her violent , prejudiced , warped , and whimsical .
I told him that I had been taught to accept all that she did on this basis .
Would this explain to him my silence in regard to her ?
" Can you endure to live with her in Bond Street for the present , or would you rather return to Waterbury ? "
" She desires my company while she is in Newport only .
I have never been with her so long before . "
" I understand her .
Law is a game , in her estimation , in which cheating can as easily be carried on as at cards . "
" Her soul is in this case . "
" Her soul is not too large for it .
Will you ride this afternoon ? "
I promised , of course .
From that time till he left Newport we saw each other every day , and though I found little opportunity to express my own peculiar feelings , he comprehended many of my wishes , and all my tastes .
I grew fond of him hourly .
Had I not reason ?
Never was friend so considerate , never was lover more devoted .
When he had been gone a few days , Aunt Eliza declared that she was ready to depart from Newport .
The rose - colored days were ended !
In two days we were on the Sound , coach , horses , servants , and ourselves .
It was the 1st of September when we arrived in Bond Street .
A week from that date Samuel Uxbridge , the senior partner of Uxbridge Brothers , went to Europe with his family , and I went to Waterbury , accompanied by Mr. Uxbridge .
He consulted mother in regard to our marriage , and appointed it in November .
In October Aunt Eliza sent for me to come back to Bond Street and spend a week .
She had some fine marking to do , she wrote .
While there I noticed a restlessness in her which I had never before observed , and conferred with Mrs.
Roll on the matter .
" She do be awake nights a deal , and that 's the reason , " Mrs.
Roll said .
Her manner was the same in other respects .
She said she would not give me any thing for my wedding outfit , but she paid my fare from Waterbury and back .
She could not spare me to go out , she told Mr. Uxbridge , and in consequence I saw little of him while there .
In November we were married .
Aunt Eliza was not at the wedding , which was a quiet one .
Mr. Uxbridge desired me to remain in Waterbury till spring .
He would not decide about taking a house in New York till then ; by that time his brother might return , and if possible we would go to Europe for a few months .
I acquiesced in all his plans .
Indeed I was not consulted ; but I was happy - happy in him , and happy in every thing .
The winter passed in waiting for him to come to Waterbury every Saturday ; and in the enjoyment of the two days he passed with me .
In March Aunt Eliza wrote me that Lemorne was beaten !
Van Horn had taken up the whole contents of his snuff - box in her house the evening before in amazement at the turn things had taken .
That night I dreamed of the scene in the hotel at Newport .
I heard Aunt Eliza saying , " If I gain , Margaret will be rich . "
And I heard also the clock strike two .
As it struck I said , " My husband is a scoundrel , " and woke with a start .
There are human beings who function " like machines " and there are machines which seem to be " almost human " .
So - the problem in this case was not murder , or who committed it but who was the " machine " and who was the " human being " .
On January 5 , 1997 Isobel Smith became Isobel Smith d'Larte .
On November 13 , 1997 Isobel Smith d'Larte gave birth to a boy - child who died .
And on March 20 , 1998 Isobel Smith d'Larte was placed on trial for the willful and premeditated murder of her husband Arnaud d'Larte .
" Not Isobel , " said her friends .
" Not Isobel .
Too mousey .
So quiet .
Surely it was n't Isobel . "
" But it 's the quiet type you 've got to watch out for , " said others .
" Probably has a lover somewhere .
She was younger than her husband you know .
Much younger .
Too much younger . "
" Killed him for his money , " said the people on the street .
" Read where she likes art and museums , stuff like that .
Must be a queer one that Isobel d'Larte . "
The accusations piled high against Isobel , but she said nothing .
She sat in court , a tiny figure in black saying nothing , seemingly not even listening to the accusations of the Prosecutor .
" We will prove willful and premeditated murder , " the Prosecutor thundered .
" Easily done , " an old woman in the audience murmured spitefully .
" Young wife , old husband .
Rich husband .
Murder !
Easily proved . "
" First witness , " the Prosecutor called .
" Sergeant Melot . "
Sergeant Melot took the stand .
The witness chair creaked under his weight .
He answered a loud , " I do , " when the clerk swore him in .
" Tell us about finding the body , " the Prosecutor said .
" Miss no details . "
" A Mrs. Watson , servant of Arnaud d'Larte , called us at nine five P.M. on March 15 .
Her master was dead , she said .
When we answered her call we found Mr. d'Larte 's body in his bedroom .
He had been dead for about an hour . "
" The cause ? "
" Beaten to death .
Beaten with an iron statue of Venus .
Evidence of a struggle .
Twenty wounds on his head . "
" Twenty wounds , Sergeant Melot ? "
" Twenty .
The first , or second , would have been enough to kill him .
But there were twenty . "
The audience gasped and the Prosecutor smiled .
" And where was Mrs.
d'Larte ? "
he asked .
" Locked in her bedroom .
Had to break the door down to get to her . "
" Did you speak to her ? "
" We spoke to her , but she did n't speak to us . "
The audience laughed and the judge rapped for silence .
" The iron statue of Venus , the one found near Mr. d'Larte 's body , you found fingerprints on it , did you not ? "
Sergeant Melot nodded .
" Whose fingerprints were they , Sergeant Melot ? "
" Mrs.
d'Larte 's . "
" Your witness , " the Prosecutor told the Defense .
" No questions , " said the Defense .
" Why ask questions , " a spectator commented .
" She 's guilty . "
" Next witness . "
" Mrs. Abby Watson to the stand please . "
Abby Watson strode to the witness chair .
Her shrew - like eyes flicked sharply towards Isobel d'Larte then away .
Her answer to the clerk who swore her in was sharp and positive .
" How long have you worked for Mr.
d'Larte ? "
the Prosecutor asked .
" Fifteen years . "
" In your opinion Mr. d'Larte was a good employer ? "
" The best .
A wonderful man , but a lonely one .
That woman tricked him into marriage .
Played on his loneliness . "
" Objection . "
" Objection sustained .
Confine yourself to the questions please . "
" Mr. d'Larte was older than his wife ? "
the Prosecutor asked .
" Eighteen years older . "
" Was it a happy marriage ? "
" At first , at least on his part .
He was contented , but she seemed restless .
Always wanted to go to museums and see paintings , or playing her silly antique records all day .
Not content with the government ' Do - It - Yourself ' kits .
Called them mechanical and expressionless .
She insulted Mr. d'Larte 's friends time and again .
Called them frauds .
Said their paintings , books and plays were terrible .
Said that real talent was dead .
" You said she spent a lot of time in museums ? "
" I did n't say it , but she did .
Every chance she got .
She 'd be gone for hours . "
" Which museum ?
The one commemorating the wars ?
The Museum of Mechanics ? "
" None of those .
She 'd go to the old one on the hill .
That horrible thing with the relics of the past in it .
The one run by the robots .
The one run by the government to remind us of the past when only a few were allowed talent and not everybody like today .
But I think she went to the museum for another reason .
No one could really be interested in those things they have there . "
" What do you think she went for , Mrs.
Watson ? "
" To meet her lover .
Shortly before he was killed Mr. d'Larte confessed to me that he was of the same opinion . "
" See , I told you she had a lover , " someone whispered .
" Old husband , young wife .
I just knew there was a lover . "
" Objection , " said the Defense .
" There is no proof that Mrs. d'Larte went to the museum to meet a lover .
There are only opinions , guesses . "
" If your honor will permit me to call my next witness I think I can prove that there was a lover , " the Prosecutor said .
The judge leaned forward in eager anticipation .
" Call your witness . "
" Bella Whychek . "
A fat , dumpy , flame - haired woman made her way to the witness stand .
As she was sworn in she tugged self - consciously at her too tight girdle .
" Miss Whychek - " " Mrs. ...
I 'm a widow . "
" Mrs. Whychek , would you tell us where you are employed . "
" Timon 's and Sons .
I 'm a secretary there . "
" And where is your office located . "
" In the building just across the street from the Museum of the Past - the one you were just talking about to that other woman . "
" Mrs. Whychek , do you recognize the woman sitting over there ? "
the Prosecutor asked as he pointed to Isobel d'Larte .
" Indeed I do .
I saw her most everyday . "
" Would you tell us the circumstances . "
" Well , from the window in my office I have a very good view of the park that is next to the museum .
About a month ago I began noticing that woman in the park .
I could n't help but notice her , she came so often . "
" Alone , Mrs.
Whychek ? "
" At first yes .
She 'd go into the museum , stay about two hours or so , then come out and sit in the park .
She never did anything but sit . "
" Was she always alone ? "
" I was just coming to that .
After about a week I noticed that a man would come and sit with her in the park . "
" Could you describe the man ? "
" No , I 'm afraid I could n't .
He always wore a long overcoat and a hat pulled down over his face .
Both the overcoat and the hat were very old though .
I did notice that .
They looked like they might have dated from around 1950 . "
" And what did this man and Mrs. d'Larte do in the park ? "
" Just sat .
Talked I guess .
I never saw them kiss or anything if that 's what you mean .
Of course many times they would still be sitting there when I left work .
What they did after that I do n't know . "
" But Mrs. d'Larte definitely did meet a man in the park . "
" Oh , yes .
She met him nearly every day for almost a month . "
" Thank you .
Your witness . "
The Defense rose slowly and walked over to where Mrs. Whychek sat .
" Remember you are under oath , Mrs. Whychek , " he said .
" You say Mrs. d'Larte and this man merely sat and talked ? "
" As far as I could tell that 's all they did .
Of course I did n't watch them every minute . "
" Then you can say that they never did anything out of the way , that their meetings , if they were that , were innocent ? "
" As far as I could tell they were . "
" Could you say whether the meetings were prearranged ? "
" I really could n't , but - " " That will be all , thank you , " the Defense interrupted .
So the first day of the trial went .
There seemed no doubt that Isobel d'Larte was guilty .
Her friends admitted loudly that poor Isobel had scandalized them to the core .
The papers labeled Isobel queer and hinted that her lover , whoever he might be , killed Mr. d'Larte for her .
Old fashioned Isobel , they called her .
Some had other names for her .
On the second day of the trial the Defense called its witnesses .
There were only three .
Two were character witnesses who hesitantly assured the court that Isobel d'Larte could not have killed her husband .
She really was a good woman .
The third witness was Isobel herself .
When she was called she rose very slowly and walked to the witness stand .
She was sworn in and seated herself in the witness chair .
Her face and hands were chalk white against the blackness of her dress .
" Mrs. d'Larte , did you kill your husband ? "
the Defense asked .
" No . "
" Do you know who did kill your husband ? "
" No . "
" Why did you lock yourself in your bedroom the night he was killed . "
" I wanted to be alone . "
The spectators giggled .
" Could you explain how your fingerprints came to be on the iron statue of Venus ?
The statue that killed your husband . "
" It was my statue .
It is quite possible that my fingerprints would be on it . "
" And you heard nothing , no sounds of struggle , the night your husband was killed ? "
" No .
I slept awhile that night .
I was tired so I locked my door and slept .
I heard nothing . "
" Do you know who would want to kill your husband ? "
" An enemy I suppose . "
" Did your husband have any enemies ? "
" Of course , everyone does .
Even God has enemies . "
That shocked the spectators , but then Isobel had meant it to .
Quite suddenly she found herself hating those in the packed court room .
Hating these upright citizens who had come to delight in her misfortune .
Who sat in smug holier - than - thou attitudes and hoped for the worst .
Not one among them really cared what happened to her - as long as it entertained them .
Isobel shivered .
" Could you be more specific about your husband 's enemies ? "
the Defense asked .
" No .
He never confided in me .
He was only interested in his munitions factories .
In machines .
He loved machines .
He particularly loved destructive machines .
Some hated him for that . "
" The man Mrs. Whychek said you met in the park .
Was there such a man ? "
Isobel twisted her handkerchief .
It was a thin , white snake in her hands .
" Was there a man , Mrs.
d'Larte ? "
the Defense repeated .
" There was a man . "
" Could you tell us his name ? "
" I do not know his name .
He was a man I met in the park .
He was a kind and gentle man .
We talked about art , music - the beautiful old art and music .
He was well informed about such things .
We talked a lot , but I do n't know his name .
We just talked . "
" Were you in love with this man , or he with you ? "
" No !
No ! "
" You definitely were not lovers ? "
" We were not ! "
" Thank you , Mrs. d'Larte .
Your witness . "
The Prosecutor approached the witness stand .
" Mrs. d'Larte , you do not like the ' Do - It - Yourself ' kits the government has put out , do you ? "
" I do not . "
" You do not approve or recognize the fact that today everyone is conceded to have talent , do you ? "
" I do not . "
" Why , Mrs.
d'Larte ? "
" Anyone can paint , but everyone is n't an artist .
Anyone can write , but everyone is n't an author .
Anyone can do anything , but everyone does not have talent . "
" So you spent a great deal of your time in the Museum of the Past looking at the so - called art treasures there ? "
" Yes .
They were worth looking at . "
" And you did not use that to cover up the fact that you met your lover at the museum ? "
" I do not have a lover . "
" The man you met in the park , you just talked to him ? "
" We talked about the wonderful , the beautiful things in the museum .
He knew about them and loved them as I did .
There was no one else I could talk to about them . "
" Naturally , " the Prosecutor sneered .
" Everyone else knows what frauds they are . "
The spectators laughed .
" Then I like the frauds , " Isobel said quietly .
" You claim you were in your bedroom with the door locked and asleep when Mr. d'Larte was killed .
Is that right ? "
" That is right . "
" And even though your bedroom is right next to Mr. d'Larte 's you heard nothing .
Is that right ? "
" Yes . "
" Your husband struggled , struggled hard before he died , Mrs. d'Larte .
You 'll forgive me if I seem skeptical of the fact that you heard nothing . "
" I was asleep .
I heard nothing . "
" No cry ?
No crashes ? "
" I heard nothing ! "
" And the man in the park - he was not your lover ? "
" He was not my lover . "
The Prosecutor turned to the judge with a grim smile .
" Your honor , I request a recess so that I may bring in a new witness . "
" This witness is not in the court room ? "
" No .
I myself only learned of him a few minutes ago .
It will take about a half - hour to bring him here . "
" And this witness is important ? "
" Yes .
I believe he can prove that Mrs. d'Larte is lying . "
" Then this court is recessed until the prosecution brings in the new witness . "
The spectators buzzed and jibbered excitedly .
A new witness .
A surprise witness .
The trial was really becoming interesting .
" I hate to leave .
I really hate to leave , " one said to her companion .
" I 'll never get back in if I leave .
But one must eat .
I hate to leave . "
" No need .
No need to leave , " the companion assured her .
" See , I brought sandwiches .
Always bring something to eat to things like this .
People crowd so .
It 's really terrible .
Have an egg ? "
" Pretty good trial , " an old man with a white beard told the person next to him .
" Not as good as the Bronson trial , but pretty good . "
" You 've seen a lot of trials ? "
the figure next to him asked .
" Seen all the good ones , " the one with the beard said proudly .
" Saw the Bronson trial in ' 96 , the Treamont trial in ' 94 .
Saw a lot of trials .
First time that I 've seen one where a wife killed her husband .
Most of the others involved infanticide .
Good trials , you understand , but disappointing .
All the verdicts were not guilty . "
" Naturally .
With over - population infanticide is n't a crime .
Rather more like a good deed these days . "
" Understand they are going to legalize the killing of unwanted children . "
" Should have been done long ago . "
" People should be more careful .
If they do n't want children , they should be more careful . "
" If you know you can get rid of them , why be careful ? "
A woman fanned herself with her pocketbook and glanced at her companion .
" Have another sandwich , dear ? "
" No , on a diet you know . "
The companion sighed .
" It 's too bad that they abolished capital punishment .
Believe me , this d'Larte hussy deserves it . "
" But it 's so much better the way they do it now , I mean sending the guilty to the wars to fight in the front lines .
Might as well get some use out of them . "
" True .
But why bother killing a husband ?
Divorcing them is so much easier .
Only takes a day and you get half the husband 's earnings . "
" You should know , dear .
You 've done it enough . "
" Only seven times . "
" I thought it was eight ? "
" I do n't count Rodger .
The lout killed himself so he would n't have to pay me a settlement .
Ah , here comes the judge . "
The spectators stood lazily as the judge entered , then reseated themselves and buzzed in anticipation .
" Your witness has arrived ? "
the judge asked .
" Yes , Your Honor , " the Prosecutor replied .
" Then call him . "
The witness was called and sworn in as the spectators gawked at him eagerly .
" Good looking .
Dark .
Evil eyes though .
Black eyes .
I like dark eyes , do n't you ? "
" Dark blue coat .
Lime green sports shirt .
Nice combination .
Must have a suit made with those colors . "
" Nasty look about that fellow .
Would n't trust him . "
" Who is he ? "
" Shhhhhhhhhh ! "
Isobel d'Larte stared at the witness in fear .
" Your name , please , " the Prosecutor demanded of the witness .
" Andy Kirk . "
" You are Mr. d'Larte 's nephew ? "
" Yep . "
" What do you do for a living , Mr.
Kirk ? "
" Anything , but basically I 'm an artist . "
" Is that what you are doing at the present time , Mr.
Kirk ? "
" No .
Everybody 's an artist today .
No room for a good one , a real one . "
" Then what do you do , Mr.
Kirk ? "
the Prosecutor asked in exasperation .
" Do n't shout .
I did n't ask to come here . "
" What do you do for a living ? "
the Prosecutor asked quietly .
" Arnaud - Mr. d'Larte - paid me to follow his wife .
To spy on her .
He paid very well . "
The spectators gasped happily .
" Now we 'll hear something , " someone said in a stage whisper .
The judge rapped for silence .
" Why did Mr. d'Larte pay you to follow his wife ? "
" He thought she had a lover . "
" But you heard Mrs. d'Larte claim that she did not have a lover . "
" No , I did n't .
How could I ?
I was n't here . "
Laughter rippled through the crowded room and the judge rapped for silence .
The Prosecutor frowned angrily .
" Mrs. d'Larte said under oath that she did not have a lover . "
" She lied . "
" Can you prove that she lied ? "
" I suppose so . "
" And they were really lovers ? "
" Mrs. d'Larte told me that she loved him . "
" And he loved her I suppose . "
" Mrs. d'Larte loved him . "
" How long were they lovers ? "
" Nearly a month . "
" I repeat , can you prove it ? "
" I can tell you who her lover is . "
" Then by all means do so . "
" No !
Please , no , " Isobel d'Larte cried .
" I killed my husband . "
When order had been restored in the court the judge stared down at Isobel .
" Am I to understand that you confess to the murder of Arnaud d'Larte ? "
" Yes , " Isobel said softly .
" I hated him and I killed him .
I killed with the iron statue of Venus .
I hit him with it till he died and I hit him with it after he was dead .
I killed him . "
Andy Kirk smiled .
It only took a short time to bring in a verdict of guilty against Isobel d'Larte .
She accepted the verdict silently and without flinching .
In like manner she accepted her sentence .
She was to be sent to fight in the front lines of the war in Asia .
" I declare this court adjourned , " the judge said and banged his gavel down authoritatively .
As Isobel d'Larte was taken from the room she was led passed Andy Kirk .
Seeing him , she stopped and stared at him coldly .
" Why did you do this to me ? "
she asked .
" To help you .
If the trial had continued the way it had you would have been judged insane and executed here in the States .
In Asia you may have a chance . "
" Does it make a difference if I have a chance ?
No one really cares . "
" You may find what you 've been looking for over there . "
" You think so ? "
" I hope so . "
" I do n't understand you , Andy . "
" Sometimes one must do bad to do good . "
Isobel stared at him not understanding his words , then the guard led her away .
Isobel d'Larte spent the night in jail , and the next morning , along with twenty other prisoners , was taken to the rocket - port to be sent to Asia .
At the rocket - port the prisoners were allowed to say their goodbyes to their families without the benefit of guards .
Isobel stood alone watching the tearful farewells , then walked slowly into the cafeteria .
As she sat alone at the corner table drinking coffee a tall man dressed in an old fashioned top coat and with an old fashioned hat pulled down over his face walked up to the table and sat down opposite her .
Isobel looked at the figure happily .
" I knew you would come . "
" Why did you confess ? "
" I did not want them to know about us .
They would have made it all so ugly sounding .
They would have made it sound vile ... and it was n't . "
Isobel reached out a hand towards the figure and a metal hand closed over hers .
" I did n't want them to harm you . "
" You did it for me ? "
" Yes .
I love you . "
" I 'm a robot .
A machine .
An unfeeling thing of iron and steel .
How can you love me ? "
" My husband was the machine .
He ate at the same time everyday , dressed at the same time , went to work at the same time .
He did the same things , thought the same things everyday of his life . "
" But he had emotion . "
" Only those he had been taught to feel and those only at the proper times .
He was mad when he should be mad and happy when he should be happy , nothing more .
He was much more of a machine than you . "
" But I can not return your love .
I do not know what emotion is . "
" I had to have someone , " Isobel cried .
" I had to have someone who was kind to me .
You liked what I liked .
You could talk to me of something besides machines .
Machines do everything now .
But you could talk to me of art , music , beauty . "
" My creator taught me those things .
Taught me to care for those things in the museum .
I would miss them if they were taken away . "
" Yes . "
Sudden tears stung Isobel 's eyes .
No one would miss her .
No one would care about her .
" I will miss you too , Isobel .
I will miss you very much . "
" As much as the things in the museum ? "
" As much as those .
More . "
Isobel stood up , leaned over and kissed the metal cheek of the one opposite her .
" Then it was worth it . "
" All prisoners assemble on the runway , " a harsh voice boomed over the loudspeaker .
" Perhaps someday I can learn to return love , " the robot said .
" You have done more than that .
You have made me happy . "
" Come back safely , Isobel . "
Isobel d'Larte ran to the runway and joined the other prisoners .
They looked at her strangely not understanding her smile .
Isobel barely noticed them , for she was happy .
Someone cared for her .
That was the important thing .
Someone cared .
The popular cliches , the pretty romances , the catchwords of advertising became realities ; and the compound kept the men enslaved .
George knew what he had to do ....
The duty bell rang and obediently George clattered down the steps from his confinement cubicle over the garage .
His mother 's chartreuse - colored Cadillac convertible purred to a stop in the drive .
" It 's so sweet of you to come , Georgie , " his mother said when George opened the door for her .
" Whenever you need me , Mummy . "
It was no effort at all to keep the sneer out of his voice .
Deception had become a part of his character .
His mother squeezed his arm .
" I can always count on my little boy to do the right thing . "
" Yes , Mummy . "
They were mouthing a formula of words .
They were both very much aware that if George had n't snapped to attention as soon as the duty bell rang , he risked being sentenced , at least temporarily , to the national hero 's corps .
Still in the customary , martyr 's whisper , George 's mother said , " This has been such a tiring day .
A man can never understand what a woman has to endure , Georgie ; my life is such an ordeal . "
Her tone turned at once coldly practical .
" I 've two packages in the trunk ; carry them to the house for me . "
George picked up the cardboard boxes and followed her along the brick walk in the direction of the white , Colonial mansion where his mother and her two daughters and her current husband lived .
George , being a boy , was allowed in the house only when his mother invited him , or when he was being shown off to a prospective bride .
George was nineteen , the most acceptable marriage age ; because he had a magnificent build and the reputation for being a good boy , his mother was rumored to be asking twenty thousand shares for him .
As they passed the rose arbor , his mother dropped on the wooden seat and drew George down beside her .
" I 've a surprise for you , George - a new bidder .
Mrs. Harper is thinking about you for her daughter . "
" Jenny Harper ? "
Suddenly his throat was dust dry with excitement .
" You 'd like that , would n't you , Georgie ? "
" Whatever arrangement you make , Mummy . "
Jenny Harper was one of the few outsiders George had occasionally seen as he grew up .
She was approximately his age , a stunning , dark - eyed brunette .
" Jenny and her mother are coming to dinner to talk over a marriage settlement . "
Speculatively she ran her hand over the tanned , muscle - hard curve of his upper arm .
" You 're anxious to have your own woman , are n't you , George ? "
" So I can begin to work for her , Mummy . "
That , at least , was the correct answer , if not an honest one .
" And begin taking the compound every day . "
His mother smiled .
" Oh , I know you wicked boys !
Put on your dress trunks tonight .
We want Jenny to see you at your best . "
She got up and strode toward the house again .
George followed respectfully two paces behind her .
As they passed beyond the garden hedge , she saw the old business coupe parked in the delivery court .
Her body stiffened in anger .
" Why is your father home so early , may I ask ? "
It was an accusation , rather than a question .
" I do n't know , Mother .
I heard my sisters talking in the yard ; I think he was taken sick at work . "
" Sick !
Some men never stop pampering themselves . "
" They said it was a heart attack or - " " Ridiculous ; he is n't dead , is he ?
Georgie , this is the last straw .
I intend to trade your father in today on a younger man . "
She snatched the two packages from him and stormed into the house .
Since his mother had n't asked him in , George returned to his confinement cubicle in the garage .
He felt sorry , in an impersonal way , for the husband his mother was about to dispose of , but otherwise the fate of the old man was quite normal .
He had outlived his economic usefulness ; George had seen it happen before .
His real father had died a natural death - from strain and overwork - when George was four .
His mother had since then bought four other husbands ; but , because boys were brought up in rigid isolation , George had known none of them well .
For the same reason , he had no personal friends .
He climbed the narrow stairway to his cubicle .
It was already late afternoon , almost time for dinner .
He showered and oiled his body carefully , before he put on his dress trunks , briefs made of black silk studded with seed pearls and small diamonds .
He was permitted to wear the jewels because his mother 's stockholdings were large enough to make her an Associate Director .
His family status gave George a high marriage value and his Adonis physique kicked the asking price still higher .
At nineteen he stood more than six feet tall , even without his formal , high - heeled boots .
He weighed one hundred and eighty - five , not an ounce of it superfluous fat .
His skin was deeply bronzed by the sunlamps in the gym ; his eyes were sapphire blue ; his crewcut was a platinum blond - thanks to the peroxide wash his mother made him use .
Observing himself critically in the full - length mirror , George knew his mother was justified in asking twenty thousand shares for him .
Marriage was an essential part of his own plans ; without it revenge was out of his reach .
He desperately hoped the deal would be made with Jenny Harper .
A young woman would be far less difficult for him to handle .
When the oil on his skin was dry , he lay down on his bunk to catch up on his required viewing until the duty bell called him to the house .
The automatic circuit snapped on the television screen above his bunk ; wearily George fixed his eyes on the unreeling love story .
For as long as he could remember , television had been a fundamental part of his education .
A federal law required every male to watch the TV romances three hours a day .
Failure to do so - and that was determined by monthly form tests mailed out by the Directorate - meant a three month sentence to the national hero 's corps .
If the statistics periodically published by the Directorate were true , George was a relatively rare case , having survived adolescence without serving a single tour of duty as a national hero .
For that he indirectly thanked his immunity to the compound .
Fear and guilt kept him so much on his toes , he grew up an amazingly well - disciplined child .
George was aware that the television romances were designed to shape his attitudes and his emotional reactions .
The stories endlessly repeated his mother 's philosophy .
All men were pictured as beasts crudely dominated by lust .
Women , on the other hand , were always sensitive , delicate , modest , and intelligent ; their martyrdom to the men in their lives was called love .
To pay for their animal lusts , men were expected to slave away their lives earning things - kitchen gadgets , household appliances , fancy cars , luxuries and stockholdings - for their patient , long - suffering wives .
And it 's all a fake !
George thought .
He had seen his Mother drive two men to their graves and trade off two others because they had n't produced luxuries as fast as she demanded .
His mother and his pinch - faced sisters were pampered , selfish , rock - hard Amazons ; by no conceivable twist of imagination could they be called martyrs to anything .
That seemed self - evident , but George had no way of knowing if any other man had ever reasoned out the same conclusion .
Maybe he was unique because of his immunity to the compound .
He was sure that very few men - possibly none - had reached marriage age with their immunity still undiscovered .
George was lucky , in a way : he knew the truth about himself when he was seven , and he had time to adjust to it - to plan the role he had been acting for the past twelve years .
His early childhood had been a livid nightmare , primarily because of the precocious cruelty of his two sisters .
Shortly before his seventh birthday they forced him to take part in a game they called cocktail party .
The game involved only one activity : the two little girls filled a glass with an unidentified liquid , and ordered George to drink .
Afterward , dancing up and down in girlish glee , they said they had given him the compound .
George had seen the love stories on television ; he knew how he was expected to act .
He gave a good performance - better than his sisters realized , for inside his mind George was in turmoil .
They had given him the compound ( true , years before he should have taken it ) , and nothing had happened .
He had felt absolutely nothing ; he was immune !
If anyone had ever found out , George would have been given a life sentence to the national hero 's corps ; or , more probably , the Morals Squad would have disposed of him altogether .
From that day on , George lived with guilt and fear .
As the years passed , he several times stole capsules of the compound from his mother 's love - cabinet and gulped them down .
Sometimes he felt a little giddy , and once he was sick .
But he experienced no reaction which could possibly be defined as love .
Not that he had any idea what that reaction should have been , but he knew he was supposed to feel very wicked and he never did .
Each failure increased the agony of guilt ; George drove himself to be far better behaved than he was required to be .
He dreaded making one mistake .
If his mother or a Director examined it too closely , they might find out his real secret .
George 's basic education began when he was assigned to his confinement room above the garage after his tenth birthday .
Thereafter his time was thoroughly regulated by law .
Three hours a day he watched television ; three hours he spent in his gym , building a magnificent - and salable - body ; for four hours he listened to the educational tapes .
Arithmetic , economics , salesmanship , business techniques , accounting , mechanics , practical science : the things he had to know in order to earn a satisfactory living for the woman who bought him in marriage .
He learned nothing else and as he grew older he became very conscious of the gaps in his education .
For instance , what of the past ?
Had the world always been this sham he lived in ?
That question he had the good sense not to ask .
But George had learned enough from his lessons in practical science to guess what the compound really was , what it had to be : a mixture of aphrodisiacs and a habit - forming drug .
The compound was calculated to stir up a man 's desire to the point where he would give up anything in order to satisfy it .
Boys were given increased doses during their adolescence ; by the time they married , they were addicts , unable to leave the compound alone .
George could n't prove his conclusion .
He had no idea how many other men had followed the same line of reasoning and come up with the same answer .
But why was George immune ?
There was only one way he could figure it : it must have happened because his sisters gave him the first draft when he was seven .
But logically that did n't make much sense .
Bachelors were another sort of enemy : men who shirked their duty and deserted their wives .
It seemed unreasonable to believe a man could desert his wife , when first he had to break himself of addiction to the compound .
George had always supposed that bachelor was a boogy word contrived to frighten growing children .
As a consequence , he was very surprised when the house next door was raided .
Through the window of his confinement cubicle , he actually saw the five gray - haired men who were rounded up by the Morals Squad .
The Squad - heavily armed , six - foot Amazons - tried to question their captives .
They used injections of a truth serum .
Two of the old men died at once .
The others went berserk , frothing at the mouth and screaming animal profanity until the Squad captain ordered them shot .
George overheard one of the women say , " It 's always like this .
They take something so our serum ca n't be effective . "
Later that afternoon George found a scrap of paper in his mother 's garden .
It had blown out of the bonfire which the Morals Squad made of the papers they took out of the house next door .
The burned page had apparently been part of an informational bulletin , compiled by the bachelors for distribution among themselves .
" ... data compiled from old publications , " the fragment began , " and interpreted by our most reliable authorities . "
At that point a part of the page was burned away .
" ... and perhaps less than ninety years ago men and women lived in equality .
The evidence on that point is entirely conclusive .
The present matriarchy evolved by accident , not design .
Ninety years ago entertainment and advertising were exclusively directed at satisfying a woman 's whim .
No product was sold without some sort of tie - in with women .
Fiction , drama , television , motion pictures - all glorified a romantic thing called love .
In that same period business was in the process of taking over government from statesmen and politicians .
Women , of course , were the stockholders who owned big business , although the directors and managers at that time were still men - operating under the illusion that they were the executives who represented ownership .
In effect , however , women owned the country and women governed it ; suddenly the matriarchy existed .
There is no evidence that it was imposed ; there is no suggestion of civil strife or .... " More words burned away .
" However , the women were not unwilling to consolidate their gains .
Consequently the popular cliches , the pretty romances , and the catchwords of advertising became a substitute for reality .
As for the compound .... " There the fragment ended .
Much of it George did not understand .
But it gave him a great deal of courage simply to know the bachelors actually existed .
He began to plan his own escape to a bachelor hideout .
He would have no opportunity , no freedom of any sort , until he married .
Every boy was rigidly isolated in his confinement cubicle , under the watchful eye of his mother 's spy - cameras , until he was bought in his first marriage .
Then , as he thought more about it , George realized there was a better way for him to use his immunity .
He could n't be sure of finding a bachelor hideout before the Morals Squad tracked him down .
But George could force his bride to tell him where the compound was made , since he was not an addict and she could not use the compound to enslave him .
Once he knew the location of the factory , he would destroy it .
How , he was n't sure ; he did n't plan that far ahead .
If the supply of the drug could be interrupted , many hundreds of men might be goaded into making a break for the hills .
The duty bell rang .
George snapped to attention on the edge of his bunk .
He saw his mother waving from the back door of her house .
" I 'll be down right away , Mummy . "
His mother was waiting for him in the pantry .
Under the glaring overhead light he stopped for her last minute inspection .
She used a pocket - stick to touch up a spot on his chest where the oil gleam had faded a little .
And she gave him a glass of the compound to drink .
" Jenny really wants to marry you , George , " she confided .
" I know the symptoms ; half our battle 's won for us .
And my former husband wo n't be around to worry us with his aches and pains .
I made the trade this afternoon . "
He followed her into the dining room where the cocktails were being served .
Aside from the Harpers , George 's mother had rented two handsome , muscular escorts for his sisters .
In the confusion , George saw Jenny Harper 's mother stealthily lace his water glass with a dose of the compound .
He suppressed a grin .
Apparently she was anxious to complete the deal , too .
George found it almost impossible to hold back hilarious laughter when Jenny herself shyly pressed a capsule of the compound into his hand and asked him to use it .
Three full - size slugs of the drug !
George wondered what would have happened if he had n't been immune .
Fortunately , he knew how to act the lusty , eager , drooling male which each of the women expected .
The negotiations moved along without a hitch .
George 's mother held out for twenty - eight thousand shares , and got it .
The only problem left was the date for the wedding , and Jenny settled that very quickly .
" I want my man , Mom , " she said , " and I want him now . "
Jenny always got what she wanted .
When she and her mother left that evening , she held George 's hand in hers and whispered earnestly , " So they were married and lived happily ever after .
That 's the way it 's going to be with us , is n't it , George ? "
" It 's up to you , Jenny ; for as long as you want me . "
That was the conventional answer which he was expected to make , but he saw unmasked disappointment in her face .
She wanted something more genuine , with more of himself in it .
He felt suddenly sorry for her , for the way he was going to use her .
She was a pretty girl , even sweet and innocent - if those words still had any real meaning left after what his mother 's world had done to them .
Under other circumstances , George would have looked forward with keen pleasure to marrying Jenny .
As it was , Jenny Harper was first a symbol of the fakery he intended to destroy , and after that a woman .
Five days later they were married .
In spite of the short engagement , Mrs. Harper and George 's mother managed to put on a splendid show in the church .
George received a business sedan from his mother , the traditional gift given every bridegroom ; and from Mrs. Harper he received a good job in a company where she was the majority stockholder .
And so , in the customary pageantry and ceremony , George became Mr. Harper .
" Think of it - Mr. Harper , " Jenny sighed , clinging to his arm .
" Now you 're really mine , George . "
On the church steps the newlyweds posed for photographs - George in the plain , white trunks which symbolized a first marriage ; Jenny in a dazzling cloud of fluff , suggestively nearly transparent .
Then Mrs. Harper drew Jenny aside and whispered in her daughter 's ear : the traditional telling of the secret .
Now Jenny knew where the compound was manufactured ; and for George revenge was within his grasp .
George 's mother had arranged for their honeymoon at Memory Lodge , a resort not far from the Directorate capital in Hollywood .
It was the national capital as well , though everyone conscientiously maintained the pretense that Washington , with an all - male Congress , still governed the country .
George considered himself lucky that his mother had chosen Memory Lodge .
He had already planned to desert Jenny in the mountains .
George knew how to drive ; his mother had wanted him to do a great deal of chauffeuring for her .
But he had never driven beyond town , and he had never driven anywhere alone .
His mother gave him a map on which his route to the lodge was indicated in bright red .
In the foothills George left the marked highway on a paved side road .
He gambled that Jenny would n't immediately realize what he had done , and the gamble paid off .
Still wearing her nearly transparent wedding gown , she pressed close to him and ran her hands constantly over his naked chest , thoroughly satisfied with the man she had bought .
In the church George had been given a tall glass of the compound ; he acted the part Jenny expected .
But it was far less a role he played than George wanted to admit .
His body sang with excitement .
He found it very difficult to hold the excitement in check .
If he had been addicted to the compound , it would have been out of the question .
More than ever before he sympathized with the men who were enslaved by love .
In spite of his own immunity , he nearly yielded to the sensuous appeal of her caress .
He held the wheel so hard his knuckles went white ; he clenched his teeth until his jaw ached .
All afternoon George drove aimless mountain roads , moving deeper into the uninhabited canyons .
Carefully judging his distances with an eye on the map , he saw to it that he remained relatively close to the city ; after he forced Jenny to give him the information he wanted , he wanted to be able to get out fast .
By dusk the roads he drove were no longer paved .
Ruts carved deep by spring rains suggested long disuse .
The swaying of the car and the constant grinding of gears eventually jolted Jenny out of her romantic dreams .
She moved away from George and sat looking at the pines which met above the road .
" We 're lost , are n't we ? "
she asked .
" What 's that ? "
he shouted to be heard above the roar of the motor .
" Lost ! "
For a minute or two longer he continued to drive until he saw an open space under the trees .
He pulled the car into the clearing and snapped off the ignition .
Then he looked Jenny full in the face and answered her .
" No , Jenny , we are n't lost ; I know exactly what I 'm doing . "
" Oh . "
He was sure she had understood him , but she said , " We can spend the night here and find the lodge in the morning .
It 's a pity we did n't bring something to eat . "
She smiled ingenuously .
" But I brought the compound ; and we have each other . "
They got out of the car .
Jenny looked up at the sunset , dull red above the trees , and shivered ; she asked George to build a fire .
He tucked the ignition key into the band of his white trunks and began to gather dry boughs and pine needles from the floor of the forest .
He found several large branches and carried them back to the clearing .
There was enough wood to last until morning - whether he stayed that long or not .
Jenny had lugged the seats and a blanket out of the car and improvised a lean - to close to the fire .
He piled on two of the larger branches and the bright glow of flame lit their faces .
She beckoned to him and gave him a bottle of the compound , watching bright - eyed as he emptied it .
With her lips parted , she waited .
He did nothing .
Slowly the light died in her eyes .
Like a savage she flung herself into his arms .
He steeled himself to show absolutely no reaction and finally she drew away .
Trembling and with tears in her eyes , she whispered , " The compound does n't - " The look of pain in her eyes turned to terror .
" You 're immune ! "
" Now you know . "
" But who told you - " She searched his face , shaking her head .
" You do n't know , do you - not really ? "
" Know what ? "
Instead of replying , she asked , " You brought me here deliberately , did n't you ? "
" So we would n't be interrupted .
You see , Jenny , you 're going to tell me where the compound 's made . "
" It would n't do you any good .
Do n't you see - " He closed his hands on her wrists and jerked her rudely to her feet .
He saw her face go white .
And no wonder : that magnificent , granite hard body , which she had bought in good faith for her own pleasure , was suddenly out of her control .
He grinned .
He crushed her mouth against his and kissed her .
Limp in his arms , she clung to him and said in a choked , husky whisper , " I love you , George . "
" And you 'll make any sacrifice for love , " he replied , mocking the dialogue of the television love stories .
" Yes , anything ! "
" Then tell me where the compound 's manufactured . "
" Hold me close , George ; never let me go . "
How many times had he heard that particular line !
It sickened him , hearing it now from Jenny ; he had expected something better of her .
He pushed her from him .
By accident his fist raked her face .
She fell back blood trickling from her mouth .
In her eyes he saw shock and a vague sense of pain ; but both were overridden by adoration .
She was like a whipped puppy , ready to lick his hand .
" I 'll tell you , George , " she whispered .
" But do n't leave me . "
She pulled herself to her feet and stood beside him , reaching for his hand .
" We make it in Hollywood , in the Directorate Building , the part that used to be a sound stage . "
" Thanks , Jenny . "
He picked up one of the car seats and walked back to the sedan .
She stood motionless watching him .
He fitted the seat in place and put the key in the lock .
The starter ground away , but the motor did not turn over .
He glanced back at Jenny .
She was smiling inscrutably , " You see , George , you have to stay with me . "
He got out of the car and moved toward her .
" I was afraid you were planning to desert me , " she went on , " so I took out the distributor cap while you were getting the firewood . "
He stood in front of her .
Coldly he demanded , " Where did you put it , Jenny ? "
She tilted her lips toward his .
" Kiss and tell - maybe . "
" I have n't time for games .
Where is it ? "
His fist shot out .
Jenny sprawled on the ground at his feet .
Again he saw the pain and the adoration in her face .
But that could n't be right .
She would hate him by this time .
He yanked her to her feet .
Her lips were still bleeding and blood came now from a wound in her cheek .
Yet she managed to smile again .
" I do n't want to hurt you , Jenny , " he told her .
" But I have to have - " " I love you , George .
I never thought I 'd want to give myself to a man .
All the buying does n't make any difference , does it ?
Not really .
And I never knew that before ! "
With an unconscious movement , she kicked her train aside and he saw the distributor cap lying beneath it .
He picked it up .
She flung herself at him screaming .
He felt the hammer beat of her heart ; her fingers dug into his back like cat claws .
Now it did n't matter .
He had the secret ; he could go whenever he wanted to .
Nonetheless he pushed her away - tenderly , and with regret .
To surrender like this was no better than a capitulation to the compound .
It was instinctively important to make her understand that .
He knew that much , but his emotions were churned too close to fever pitch for him to reason out what else that implied .
He clipped her neatly on the jaw and put her unconscious body on the ground by the fire .
He left the map with her so she could find her way out in the morning ; he knew it was really a very short hike to a highway , where she would be picked up by a passing car or truck .
He drove out the way he had come in - at least he tried to remember .
Four times he took a wrong turn and had to backtrack .
It was , therefore , dawn before he reached the outskirts of Hollywood .
In any other city he would not have been conspicuous - simply a man on his way to work ; only women slept late .
However , Hollywood was off - limits to every male .
The city was not only the seat of the Directorate , but the manufacturing center for the cosmetics industry .
And since that gave women her charm , it was a business no man worked at .
George had to have a disguise .
He stopped on a residential street , where the people were still likely to be in their beds .
He read names on mail boxes until he found a house where an unmarried woman lived .
He had no way of knowing if she had a husband on approval with her , but the box was marked " Miss. "
With any luck he might have got what he wanted without disturbing her , but the woman was a light sleeper and she caught him as he was putting on the dress .
He was sorry he had to slug her , but she gave him no resistance .
A spark of hope , a spark of long - forgotten youth glowed in her eyes ; before she slid into unconsciousness .
Wearing the stolen dress , which fit him like a tent , and an enormous hat to hide his face , George parked his sedan near the Directorate and entered the building when it opened at eight .
In room after room automatons demonstrated how to dress correctly ; robot faces displayed the uses of cosmetics .
There were displays of kitchen gadgets , appliances , and other heavy machinery for the home ; recorded lectures on stock management and market control .
Here women came from every part of the country for advice , help and guidance .
Here the Top Directors met to plan business policy , to govern the nation , and to supervise the production of the compound .
For only the Top Directors - less than a dozen women - actually knew the formula .
Like their stockholdings , the secret was hereditary , passed from mother to daughter .
George searched every floor of the building , but found nothing except exhibit rooms .
Time passed , and still he did not find what he had come for .
More and more women crowded in to see the exhibits .
Several times he found new - comers examining him oddly ; he found he had to avoid the crowds .
Eventually he went down steps into the basement , though a door marked " Keep Out . "
The door was neither locked nor guarded , but there was a remote chance it might lead to the production center for the compound .
In the basement George found a mechanical operation underway ; at first he took it for another cosmetic exhibit .
Conveyor belts delivered barrels of flavoring syrup , alcohol and a widely advertised liquid vitamin compound .
Machines sliced open the containers , dumping the contents into huge vats , from which pipes emptied the mixture into passing rows of bottles .
The bottles : suddenly George recognized them and the truth dawned on him , sickeningly .
Here was the manufacturing center for the compound - but it might just as well have been a barn in Connecticut or a store window in Manhattan .
No man was enslaved by the compound , for the compound did not exist .
He was imprisoned by his own sense of guilt , his own fear of being different .
George remembered his own fear and guilt : he knew how much a man could be driven to make himself conform to what he thought other men were like .
His revenge was as foolish as the sham he wanted to destroy .
He should have reasoned that out long ago ; he should have realized it was impossible to have immunity to an addictive drug .
But , no , George believed what he saw on the television programs .
He was victimized as much as any man had ever been .
He turned blindly toward the stairway , and from the shadows in the hall the Morals Squad closed in around him .
With a final gesture of defiance , he ripped off the stolen dress and the absurd hat , and stood waiting for the blast from their guns .
An old woman , wearing the shoulder insignia of a Top Director , pushed through the squad and faced him , a revolver in her hand .
She was neither angry nor disturbed .
Her voice , when she spoke , was filled with pity .
Pity !
That was the final indignity .
" Now you know the truth , " she said .
" A few men always have to try it ; and we usually let them see this room and find out for themselves before - before we close the case . "
Tensely he demanded , " Just how much longer do you think - " " We can get away with this ?
As long as men are human beings .
It 's easier to make yourself believe a lie if you think everyone else believes it , than to believe a truth you 've found out on your own .
All of us want more than anything else to be like other people .
Women have created a world for you with television programs ; you grow up observing nothing else ; you make yourself fit into the pattern .
Only a few independent - minded characters have the courage to accept their own immunity ; most of them end up here , trying to do something noble for the rest of mankind .
But you have one satisfaction , for what it 's worth : you 've been true to yourself . "
True to yourself .
George found a strange comfort in the words , and his fear was gone .
He squared his shoulders and faced the mouth of her gun .
True to yourself : that was something worth dying for .
He saw a flicker of emotion in the old woman 's eyes .
Admiration ?
He could n't be sure .
For at the moment a shot rang out from the end of the corridor ; and the Top Director fell back , nursing a hand suddenly bright with blood .
" Let him go . "
It was Jenny 's voice .
She was sheltered by a partly open door at the foot of the stairway .
" Do n't be a fool , " the old woman replied .
" He 's seen too much . "
" It does n't matter .
Who would believe him ? "
" You 're upset .
You do n't realize - " " He 's mine and I want him . "
" The Directorate will give you a refund of the purchase price . "
" You did n't understand me .
I do n't want one of your pretty automatons ; anybody can buy them for a few shares of stock .
I want a man - a real man ; I want to belong to him . "
" He belongs to you ; you bought him . "
" And that 's what 's wrong .
We really belong to each other . "
The old woman glanced at George and he saw the same flicker of feeling in her eyes .
And tears , tears of regret .
Why ?
" We have you outnumbered , " the old woman said quietly to Jenny .
" I do n't care .
I have a gun ; I 'll use it as long as I 'm able . "
The Morals Squad raised their weapons .
The Director shook her head imperiously and they snapped to attention again .
" If you take him from us , " she called out to Jenny , " you 'll be outlawed .
We 'll hunt you down , if we can . "
" I want him , " Jenny persisted .
" I do n't care about the rest of it . "
The old woman nodded to George .
He could n't believe that she meant it .
The Director was on her home ground , in her headquarters building , backed by an armed squad of stone - faced Amazons .
She had no reason to let him go .
She walked beside him as he moved down the hall .
When they were twenty feet from the guard , she closed her thin hand on his arm ; her eyes swam with tears and she whispered , " There truly is a love potion .
Not this nonsense we bottle here , but something real and very worthwhile .
You and this girl have found it .
I know that , from the way she talks .
She does n't say anything about ownership , and that 's as it should be .
As it has to be , for any of us to be happy .
Hold tight to that all the rest of your life .
Do n't ever believe in words ; do n't fall for any more love stories ; believe what you feel deep inside - what you know yourself to be true .
" You men who learn how to break away are our only hope , too .
Most of us do n't see that yet .
I do ; I know what it used to be like .
Someday there may be enough men with the stamina to take back the place of dominance that we stole from them .
We thought we wanted it ; for decades before we had been screaming about women 's rights . "
Her thin lips twisted in a sneer and she spat her disgust .
" Finally we took what we wanted , and it turned to ashes in our hands .
We made our men playthings ; we made them slaves .
And after that they were n't men any more .
But what we stole is n't the sort of thing you can hand back on a silver platter ; you men have to get enough courage to take it away from us . "
Her grip tightened on his arm .
" There 's a fire door at the end of the hall ; if you push the emergency button , you 'll close it .
That will give you a five or ten minute start .
I ca n't help you any more .... " They were abreast of Jenny .
She seized Jenny 's hand and thrust it into his .
" Beat it , kids ; there 's a bachelor camp on the north ridge .
You can make it .
" And from here on in , what he says goes , " the old woman added .
" Do n't forget that . "
" She wo n't , " George answered , supremely self - assured .
He took Jenny 's arm and , turning abruptly , they made their break for freedom .
The Director managed to remain standing in the middle of the corridor , making a dangerous target of herself so that none of the Morals Squad could risk a shot at the fugitives .
As the fire door clanged shut George looked back .
He saw the old woman 's lips moving in silent prayer .
It was the last house in Beauchamp Row , and it stood several rods away from its nearest neighbor .
It was a pretty house in the daytime , but owing to its deep , sloping roof and small bediamonded windows it had a lonesome look at night , notwithstanding the crimson hall - light which shone through the leaves of its vine - covered doorway .
Ned Chivers lived in it with his six months ' married bride , and as he was both a busy fellow and a gay one there were many evenings when pretty Letty Chivers sat alone until near midnight .
She was of an uncomplaining spirit , however , and said little , though there were times when both the day and evening seemed very long and married life not altogether the paradise she had expected .
On this evening - a memorable evening for her , the twenty - fourth of December , 1894 - she had expected her husband to remain with her , for it was not only Christmas eve , but the night when , as manager of a large manufacturing concern , he brought up from New York the money with which to pay off the men on the next working day , and he never left her when there was any unusual amount of money in the house .
But from the first glimpse she had of him coming up the road she knew she was to be disappointed in this hope , and , indignant , alarmed almost , at the prospect of a lonesome evening under these circumstances , she ran hastily down to the gate to meet him , crying : " Oh , Ned , you look so troubled I know you have only come home for a hurried supper .
But you can not leave me to - night .
Tennie " ( their only maid ) " has gone for a holiday , and I never can stay in this house alone with all that . "
She pointed to the small bag he carried , which , as she knew , was filled to bursting with bank notes .
He certainly looked troubled .
It is hard to resist the entreaty in a young bride 's uplifted face .
But this time he could not help himself , and he said : " I am dreadful sorry , but I must ride over to Fairbanks to - night .
Mr. Pierson has given me an imperative order to conclude a matter of business there , and it is very important that it should be done .
I should lose my position if I neglected the matter , and no one but Hasbrouck and Suffern knows that we keep the money in the house .
I have always given out that I intrusted it to Hale 's safe over night . "
" But I can not stand it , " she persisted .
" You have never left me on these nights .
That is why I let Tennie go .
I will spend the evening at The Larches , or , better still , call in Mr. and Mrs. Talcott to keep me company . "
But her husband did not approve of her going out or of her having company .
The Larches was too far away , and as for Mr. and Mrs. Talcott , they were meddlesome people , whom he had never liked ; besides , Mrs. Talcott was delicate , and the night threatened storm .
It seemed hard to subject her to this ordeal , and he showed that he thought so by his manner , but , as circumstances were , she would have to stay alone , and he only hoped she would be brave and go to bed like a good girl , and think nothing about the money , which he would take care to put away in a very safe place .
" Or , " said he , kissing her downcast face , " perhaps you would rather hide it yourself ; women always have curious ideas about such things . "
" Yes , let me hide it , " she murmured .
" The money , I mean , not the bag .
Every one knows the bag .
I should never dare to leave it in that . "
And begging him to unlock it , she began to empty it with a feverish haste that rather alarmed him , for he surveyed her anxiously and shook his head as if he dreaded the effects of this excitement upon her .
But as he saw no way of averting it he confined himself to using such soothing words as were at his command , and then , humoring her weakness , helped her to arrange the bills in the place she had chosen , and restuffing the bag with old receipts till it acquired its former dimensions , he put a few bills on top to make the whole look natural , and , laughing at her white face , relocked the bag and put the key back in his pocket .
" There , dear ; a notable scheme and one that should relieve your mind entirely ! "
he cried .
" If any one should attempt burglary in my absence and should succeed in getting into a house as safely locked as this will be when I leave it , then trust to their being satisfied when they see this booty , which I shall hide where I always hide it - in the cupboard over my desk . "
" And when will you be back ? "
she murmured , trembling in spite of herself at these preparations .
" By one o'clock if possible .
Certainly by two . "
" And our neighbors go to bed at ten , " she murmured .
But the words were low , and she was glad he did not hear them , for if it was his duty to obey the orders he had received , then it was her duty to meet the position in which it left her as bravely as she could .
At supper she was so natural that his face rapidly brightened , and it was with quite an air of cheerfulness that he rose at last to lock up the house and make such preparations as were necessary for his dismal ride over the mountains to Fairbanks .
She had the supper dishes to wash up in Tennie 's absence , and as she was a busy little housewife she found herself singing a snatch of song as she passed back and forth from dining - room to kitchen .
He heard it , too , and smiled to himself as he bolted the windows on the ground floor and examined the locks of the three lower doors , and when he finally came into the kitchen with his greatcoat on to give her his final kiss , he had but one parting injunction to urge , and that was that she should lock the front door after him and then forget the whole matter till she heard his double knock at midnight .
She smiled and held up her ingenuous face .
" Be careful of yourself , " she murmured .
" I hate this dark ride for you , and on such a night too . "
And she ran with him to the door to look out .
" It is certainly very dark , " he responded , " but I 'm to have one of Brown 's safest horses .
Do not worry about me .
I shall do well enough , and so will you , too , or you are not the plucky little woman I have always thought you . "
She laughed , but there was a choking sound in her voice that made him look at her again .
But at sight of his anxiety she recovered herself , and pointing to the clouds said earnestly : " It is going to snow .
Be careful as you ride by the gorge , Ned ; it is very deceptive there in a snowstorm . "
But he vowed that it would not snow before morning , and giving her one final embrace he dashed down the path toward Brown 's livery stable .
" Oh , what is the matter with me ? "
she murmured to herself as his steps died out in the distance .
" I never knew I was such a coward . "
And she paused for a moment , looking up and down the road , as if in despite of her husband 's command she had the desperate idea of running away to some neighbor .
But she was too loyal for that , and smothering a sigh she retreated into the house .
As she did so the first flakes fell of the storm that was not to have come till morning .
It took her an hour to get her kitchen in order , and nine o'clock struck before she was ready to sit down .
She had been so busy she had not noticed how the wind had increased or how rapidly the snow was falling .
But when she went to the front door for another glance up and down the road she started back , appalled at the fierceness of the gale and at the great pile of snow that had already accumulated on the doorstep .
Too delicate to breast such a wind , she saw herself robbed of her last hope of any companionship , and sighing heavily she locked and bolted the door for the night and went back into her little sitting - room , where a great fire was burning .
Here she sat down , and determined , now that she must pass the evening alone , to do it as cheerfully as possible , and so began to sew .
" Oh , what a Christmas eve ! "
she thought , and a picture of other homes rose before her eyes , homes in which husbands sat by wives and brothers by sisters , and a great wave of regret poured over her and a longing for something , she hardly dared say what , lest her unhappiness should acquire a sting that would leave traces beyond the passing moment .
The room in which she sat was the only one on the ground floor except the dining - room and kitchen .
It therefore was used both as parlor and sitting - room , and held not only her piano , but her husband 's desk .
Communicating with it was the tiny dining - room .
Between the two , however , was an entry leading to a side entrance .
A lamp was in this entry , and she had left it burning , as well as the one in the kitchen , that the house might look cheerful and as if all the family were at home .
She was looking toward this entry and wondering whether it was the mist made by her tears that made it look so dismally dark to her when there came a faint sound from the door at its further end .
Knowing that her husband must have taken peculiar pains with the fastenings of this door , as it was the one toward the woods and therefore most accessible to wayfarers , she sat where she was , with all her faculties strained to listen .
But no further sound came from that direction , and after a few minutes of silent terror she was allowing herself to believe that she had been deceived by her fears when she suddenly heard the same sound at the kitchen door , followed by a muffled knock .
Frightened now in good earnest , but still alive to the fact that the intruder was as likely to be a friend as a foe , she stepped to the door , and with her hand on the lock stooped and asked boldly enough who was there .
But she received no answer , and more affected by this unexpected silence than by the knock she had heard she recoiled farther and farther till not only the width of the kitchen , but the dining - room also , lay between her and the scene of her alarm , when to her utter confusion the noise shifted again to the side of the house , and the door she thought so securely fastened , swung violently open as if blown in by a fierce gust , and she saw precipitated into the entry the burly figure of a man covered with snow and shaking with the violence of the storm that seemed at once to fill the house .
Her first thought was that it was her husband come back , but before she could clear her eyes from the cloud of snow which had entered with him he had thrown off his outer covering and she found herself face to face with a man in whose powerful frame and cynical visage she saw little to comfort her and much to surprise and alarm .
" Ugh ! "
was his coarse and rather familiar greeting .
" A hard night , missus !
Enough to drive any man indoors .
Pardon the liberty , but I could n't wait for you to lift the latch ; the wind drove me right in . "
" Was - was not the door locked ? "
she feebly asked , thinking he must have staved it in with his foot , that looked only too well fitted for such a task .
" Not much , " he chuckled .
" I s'pose you 're too hospitable for that . "
And his eyes passed from her face to the comfortable firelight shining through the sitting - room .
" Is it refuge you want ? "
she demanded , suppressing as much as possible all signs of fear .
" Sure , missus - what else !
A man ca n't live in a gale like that , specially after a tramp of twenty miles or more .
Shall I shut the door for you ? "
he asked , with a mixture of bravado and good nature that frightened her more and more .
" I will shut it , " she replied , with a half notion of escaping this sinister stranger by a flight through the night .
But one glance into the swirling snow - storm deterred her , and making the best of the alarming situation , she closed the door , but did not lock it , being more afraid now of what was inside the house than of anything left to threaten her from without .
The man , whose clothes were dripping with water , watched her with a cynical smile , and then , without any invitation , entered the dining - room , crossed it and moved toward the kitchen fire .
" Ugh !
ugh !
But it is warm here ! "
he cried , his nostrils dilating with an animal - like enjoyment that in itself was repugnant to her womanly delicacy .
" Do you know , missus , I shall have to stay here all night ?
Ca n't go out in that gale again ; not such a fool . "
Then with a sly look at her trembling form and white face he insinuatingly added , " All alone , missus ? "
The suddenness with which this was put , together with the leer that accompanied it , made her start .
Alone ?
Yes , but should she acknowledge it ?
Would it not be better to say that her husband was up - stairs .
The man evidently saw the struggle going on in her mind , for he chuckled to himself and called out quite boldly : " Never mind , missus ; it 's all right .
Just give me a bit of cold meat and a cup of tea or something , and we 'll be very comfortable together .
You 're a slender slip of a woman to be minding a house like this .
I 'll keep you company if you do n't mind , leastwise until the storm lets up a bit , which ai n't likely for some hours to come .
Rough night , missus , rough night . "
" I expect my husband home at any time , " she hastened to say .
And thinking she saw a change in the man 's countenance at this she put on quite an air of sudden satisfaction and bounded toward the front of the house .
" There !
I think I hear him now , " she cried .
Her motive was to gain time , and if possible to obtain the opportunity of shifting the money from the place where she had first put it into another and safer one .
" I want to be able , " she thought , " of swearing that I have no money with me in this house .
If I can only get it into my apron I will drop it outside the door into the snowbank .
It will be as safe there as in the bank it came from . "
And dashing into the sitting - room she made a feint of dragging down a shawl from a screen , while she secretly filled her skirt with the bills which had been put between some old pamphlets on the bookshelves .
She could hear the man grumbling in the kitchen , but he did not follow her front , and taking advantage of the moment 's respite from his none too encouraging presence she unbarred the door and cheerfully called out her husband 's name .
The ruse was successful .
She was enabled to fling the notes where the falling flakes would soon cover them from sight , and feeling more courageous , now that the money was out of the house , she went slowly back , saying she had made a mistake , and that it was the wind she had heard .
The man gave a gruff but knowing guffaw and then resumed his watch over her , following her steps as she proceeded to set him out a meal , with a persistency that reminded her of a tiger just on the point of springing .
But the inviting look of the viands with which she was rapidly setting the table soon distracted his attention , and allowing himself one grunt of satisfaction , he drew up a chair and set himself down to what to him was evidently a most savory repast .
" No beer ?
No ale ?
Nothing o ' that sort , eh ?
Do n't keep a bar ? "
he growled , as his teeth closed on a huge hunk of bread .
She shook her head , wishing she had a little cold poison bottled up in a tight - looking jug .
" Nothing but tea , " she smiled , astonished at her own ease of manner in the presence of this alarming guest .
" Then let 's have that , " he grumbled , taking the bowl she handed him , with an odd look that made her glad to retreat to the other side of the room .
" Jest listen to the howling wind , " he went on between the huge mouthfuls of bread and cheese with which he was gorging himself .
" But we 're very comfortable , we two !
We do n't mind the storm , do we ? "
Shocked by his familiarity and still more moved by the look of mingled inquiry and curiosity with which his eyes now began to wander over the walls and cupboards , she took an anxious step toward the side of the house looking toward her neighbors , and lifting one of the shades , which had all been religiously pulled down , she looked out .
A swirl of snow - flakes alone confronted her .
She could neither see her neighbors , nor could she be seen by them .
A shout from her to them would not be heard .
She was as completely isolated as if the house stood in the center of a desolate western plain .
" I have no trust but in God , " she murmured as she came from the window .
And , nerved to meet her fate , she crossed to the kitchen .
It was now half - past ten .
Two hours and a half must elapse before her husband could possibly arrive .
She set her teeth at the thought and walked resolutely into the room .
" Are you done ? "
she asked .
" I am , ma'am , " he leered .
" Do you want me to wash the dishes ?
I kin , and I will . "
And he actually carried his plate and cup to the sink , where he turned the water upon them with another loud guffaw .
" If only his fancy would take him into the pantry , " she thought , " I could shut and lock the door upon him and hold him prisoner till Ned gets back . "
But his fancy ended its flight at the sink , and before her hopes had fully subsided he was standing on the threshold of the sitting - room door .
" It 's pretty here , " he exclaimed , allowing his eye to rove again over every hiding - place within sight .
" I wonder now " - He stopped .
His glance had fallen on the cupboard over her husband 's desk .
" Well ? "
she asked , anxious to break the thread of his thought , which was only too plainly mirrored in his eager countenance .
He started , dropped his eyes , and turning looked at her with a momentary fierceness .
But , as she did not let her own glance quail , but continued to look at him with what she meant for a smile on her pale lips , he subdued this outward manifestation of passion , and , chuckling to hide his embarrassment , began backing into the entry , leering in evident enjoyment of the fears he caused , with what she felt was a most horrible smile .
Once in the hall , he hesitated , however , for a long time ; then he slowly went toward the garment he had dropped on entering and stooping , drew from underneath its folds a wicked - looking stick .
Giving a kick to the coat , which sent it into a remote corner , he bestowed upon her another smile , and still carrying the stick went slowly and reluctantly away into the kitchen .
" Oh , God Almighty , help me ! "
was her prayer .
There was nothing for her to do now but endure , so throwing herself into a chair , she tried to calm the beating of her heart and summon up courage for the struggle which she felt was before her .
That he had come to rob and only waited to take her off her guard she now felt certain , and rapidly running over in her mind all the expedients of self - defense possible to one in her situation , she suddenly remembered the pistol which Ned kept in his desk .
Oh , why had she not thought of it before !
Why had she let herself grow mad with terror when here , within reach of her hand , lay such a means of self - defense ?
With a feeling of joy ( she had always hated pistols before and scolded Ned when he bought this one ) she started to her feet and slid her hand into the drawer .
But it came back empty .
Ned had taken the weapon away with him .
For a moment , a surge of the bitterest feeling she had ever experienced passed over her ; then she called reason to her aid and was obliged to acknowledge that the act was but natural , and that from his standpoint he was much more likely to need it than herself .
But the disappointment , coming so soon after hope , unnerved her , and she sank back in her chair , giving herself up for lost .
How long she sat there with her eyes on the door , through which she momentarily expected her assailant to reappear , she never knew .
She was conscious only of a sort of apathy that made movement difficult and even breathing a task .
In vain she tried to change her thoughts .
In vain she tried to follow her husband in fancy over the snow - covered roads and into the gorge of the mountains .
Imagination failed her at this point .
Do what she would , all was misty in her mind 's eye , and she could not see that wandering image .
There was blankness between his form and her , and no life or movement anywhere but here in the scene of her terror .
Her eyes were on a strip of rug that covered the entry floor , and so strange was the condition of her mind that she found herself mechanically counting the tassels that finished its edge , growing wroth over one that was worn , till she hated that sixth tassel and mentally determined that if she ever outlived this night she would strip them all off and be done with them .
The wind had lessened , but the air had grown cooler and the snow made a sharp sound where it struck the panes .
She felt it falling , though she had cut off all view of it .
It seemed to her that a pall was settling over the world and that she would soon be smothered under its folds .
Meanwhile no sound came from the kitchen , only that dreadful sense of a doom creeping upon her - a sense that grew in intensity till she found herself watching for the shadow of that lifted stick on the wall of the entry , and almost imagined she saw the tip of it appearing , when without any premonition , that fatal side door again blew in and admitted another man of so threatening an aspect that she succumbed instantly before him and forgot all her former fears in this new terror .
The second intruder was a negro of powerful frame and lowering aspect , and as he came for - ward and stood in the doorway there was observable in his fierce and desperate countenance no attempt at the insinuation of the other , only a fearful resolution that made her feel like a puppet before him , and drove her , almost without her volition , to her knees .
" Money ?
Is it money you want ? "
was her desperate greeting .
" If so , here 's my purse and here are my rings and watch .
Take them and go . "
But the stolid wretch did not even stretch out his hands .
His eyes went beyond her , and the mingled anxiety and resolve which he displayed would have cowed a stouter heart than that of this poor woman .
" Keep de trash , " he growled .
" I want de company 's money .
You ' ve got it - two thousand dollars .
Show me where it is , that 's all , and I wo n't trouble you long after I close on it . "
" But it 's not in the house , " she cried .
" I swear it is not in the house .
Do you think Mr. Chivers would leave me here alone with two thousand dollars to guard ? "
But the negro , swearing that she lied , leaped into the room , and tearing open the cupboard above her husband 's desk , seized the bag from the corner where they had put it .
" He brought it in this , " he muttered , and tried to force the bag open , but finding this impossible he took out a heavy knife and cut a big hole in its side .
Instantly there fell out the pile of old receipts with which they had stuffed it , and seeing these he stamped with rage , and flinging them in one great handful at her rushed to the drawers below , emptied them , and , finding nothing , attacked the bookcase .
" The money is somewhere here .
You ca n't fool me , " he yelled .
" I saw the spot your eyes lit on when I first came into the room .
Is it behind these books ? "
he growled , pulling them out and throwing them helter - skelter over the floor .
" Women is smart in the hiding business .
Is it behind these books , I say ? "
They had been , or rather had been placed between the books , but she had taken them away , as we know , and he soon began to realise that his search was bringing him nothing , for leaving the bookcase he gave the books one kick , and seizing her by the arm , shook her with a murderous glare on his strange and distorted features .
" Where 's the money ? "
he hissed .
" Tell me , or you are a goner . "
He raised his heavy fist .
She crouched and all seemed over , when , with a rush and cry , a figure dashed between them and he fell , struck down by the very stick she had so long been expecting to see fall upon her own head .
The man who had been her terror for hours had at the moment of need acted as her protector .
She must have fainted , but if so , her unconsciousness was but momentary , for when she again recognized her surroundings she found the tramp still standing over her adversary .
" I hope you do n't mind , ma'am , " he said , with an air of humbleness she certainly had not seen in him before , " but I think the man 's dead . "
And he stirred with his foot the heavy figure before him .
" Oh , no , no , no ! "
she cried .
" That would be too fearful .
He 's shocked , stunned ; you can not have killed him . "
But the tramp was persistent .
" I 'm ' fraid I have , " he said .
" I done it before , and it 's been the same every time .
But I could n't see a man of that color frighten a lady like you .
My supper was too warm in me , ma'am .
Shall I throw him outside the house ? "
" Yes , " she said , and then , " No ; let us first be sure there is no life in him . "
And , hardly knowing what she did , she stooped down and peered into the glassy eyes of the prostrate man .
Suddenly she turned pale - no , not pale , but ghastly , and cowering back , shook so that the tramp , into whose features a certain refinement had passed since he had acted as her protector , thought she had discovered life in those set orbs , and was stooping down to make sure that this was so , when he saw her suddenly lean forward and , impetuously plunging her hand into the negro 's throat , tear open the shirt and give one look at his bared breast .
It was white .
" O God !
O God ! "
she moaned , and lifting the head in her two hands she gave the motionless features a long and searching look .
" Water ! "
she cried .
" Bring water . "
But before the now obedient tramp could respond , she had torn off the woolly wig disfiguring the dead man 's head , and seeing the blond curls beneath had uttered such a shriek that it rose above the gale and was heard by her distant neighbors .
It was the head and hair of her husband .
They found out afterwards that he had contemplated this theft for months , that each and every precaution possible to a successful issue to this most daring undertaking had been made use of and that but for the unexpected presence in the house of the tramp , he would doubtless have not only extorted the money from his wife , but have so covered up the deed by a plausible alibi as to have retained her confidence and that of his employers .
Whether the tramp killed him out of sympathy for the defenseless woman or in rage at being disappointed in his own plans has never been determined .
Mrs. Chivers herself thinks he was actuated by a rude sort of gratitude .
Henry Slesar , as we have said before , is a young advertising executive who has rapidly become one of the better known writers in the field .
Here is an off - trail story that is guaranteed to make some of you take a very searching second look at some of the young men you know .
my father , the cat by HENRY SLESAR He wondered if I 'd told her everything , and , faltering , I had to admit that I had n't .
She was wonderful - but human .
My mother was a lovely , delicate woman from the coast of Brittany , who was miserable sleeping on less than three mattresses , and who , it is said , was once injured by a falling leaf in her garden .
My grandfather , a descendant of the French nobility whose family had ridden the tumbrils of the Revolution , tended her fragile body and spirit with the same loving care given rare , brief - blooming flowers .
You may imagine from this his attitude concerning marriage .
He lived in terror of the vulgar , heavy - handed man who would one day win my mother 's heart , and at last , this persistent dread killed him .
His concern was unnecessary , however , for my mother chose a suitor who was as free of mundane brutality as a husband could be .
Her choice was Dauphin , a remarkable white cat which strayed onto the estate shortly after his death .
Dauphin was an unusually large Angora , and his ability to speak in cultured French , English , and Italian was sufficient to cause my mother to adopt him as a household pet .
It did not take long for her to realize that Dauphin deserved a higher status , and he became her friend , protector , and confidante .
He never spoke of his origin , nor where he had acquired the classical education which made him such an entertaining companion .
After two years , it was easy for my mother , an unworldly woman at best , to forget the dissimilarity in their species .
In fact , she was convinced that Dauphin was an enchanted prince , and Dauphin , in consideration of her illusions , never dissuaded her .
At last , they were married by an understanding clergyman of the locale , who solemnly filled in the marriage application with the name of M. Edwarde Dauphin .
I , Etienne Dauphin , am their son .
To be candid , I am a handsome youth , not unlike my mother in the delicacy of my features .
My father 's heritage is evident in my large , feline eyes , and in my slight body and quick movements .
My mother 's death , when I was four , left me in the charge of my father and his coterie of loyal servants , and I could not have wished for a finer upbringing .
It is to my father 's patient tutoring that I owe whatever graces I now possess .
It was my father , the cat , whose gentle paws guided me to the treasure houses of literature , art , and music , whose whiskers bristled with pleasure at a goose well cooked , at a meal well served , at a wine well chosen .
How many happy hours we shared !
He knew more of life and the humanities , my father , the cat , than any human I have met in all my twenty - three years .
Until the age of eighteen , my education was his personal challenge .
Then , it was his desire to send me into the world outside the gates .
He chose for me a university in America , for he was deeply fond of what he called " that great raw country , " where he believed my feline qualities might be tempered by the aggressiveness of the rough - coated barking dogs I would be sure to meet .
I must confess to a certain amount of unhappiness in my early American years , torn as I was from the comforts of the estate and the wisdom of my father , the cat .
But I became adapted , and even upon my graduation from the university , sought and held employment in a metropolitan art museum .
It was there I met Joanna , the young woman I intended to make my bride .
Joanna was a product of the great American southwest , the daughter of a cattle - raiser .
There was a blooming vitality in her face and her body , a lustiness born of open skies and desert .
Her hair was not the gold of antiquity ; it was new gold , freshly mined from the black rock .
Her eyes were not like old - world diamonds ; their sparkle was that of sunlight on a cascading river .
Her figure was bold , an open declaration of her sex .
She was , perhaps , an unusual choice for the son of fairy - like mother and an Angora cat .
But from the first meeting of our eyes , I knew that I would someday bring Joanna to my father 's estate to present her as my fiancee .
I approached that occasion with understandable trepidation .
My father had been explicit in his advice before I departed for America , but on no point had he been more emphatic than secrecy concerning himself .
He assured me that revelation of my paternity would bring ridicule and unhappiness upon me .
The advice was sound , of course , and not even Joanna knew that our journey 's end would bring us to the estate of a large , cultured , and conversing cat .
I had deliberately fostered the impression that I was orphaned , believing that the proper place for revealing the truth was the atmosphere of my father 's home in France .
I was certain that Joanna would accept her father - in - law without distress .
Indeed , had n't nearly a score of human servants remained devoted to their feline master for almost a generation ?
We had agreed to be we d on the first of June , and on May the fourth , emplaned in New York for Paris .
We were met at Orly Field by Francois , my father 's solemn manservant , who had been delegated not so much as escort as he was chaperone , my father having retained much of the old world proprieties .
It was a long trip by automobile to our estate in Brittany , and I must admit to a brooding silence throughout the drive which frankly puzzled Joanna .
However , when the great stone fortress that was our home came within view , my fears and doubts were quickly dispelled .
Joanna , like so many Americans , was thrilled at the aura of venerability and royal custom surrounding the estate .
Francois placed her in charge of Madame Jolinet , who clapped her plump old hands with delight at the sight of her fresh blonde beauty , and chattered and clucked like a mother hen as she led Joanna to her room on the second floor .
As for myself , I had one immediate wish : to see my father , the cat .
He greeted me in the library , where he had been anxiously awaiting our arrival , curled up in his favorite chair by the fireside , a wide - mouthed goblet of cognac by his side .
As I entered the room , he lifted a paw formally , but then his reserve was dissolved by the emotion of our reunion , and he licked my face in unashamed joy .
Francois refreshed his glass , and poured another for me , and we toasted each other 's well - being .
" To you , mon purr , " I said , using the affectionate name of my childhood memory .
" To Joanna , " my father said .
He smacked his lips over the cognac , and wiped his whiskers gravely .
" And where is this paragon ? "
" With Madame Jolinet .
She will be down shortly . "
" And you have told her everything ? "
I blushed .
" No , mon purr , I have not .
I thought it best to wait until we were home .
She is a wonderful woman , " I added impulsively .
" She will not be - " " Horrified ? "
my father said .
" What makes you so certain , my son ? "
" Because she is a woman of great heart , " I said stoutly .
" She was educated at a fine college for women in Eastern America .
Her ancestors were rugged people , given to legend and folklore .
She is a warm , human person - " " Human , " my father sighed , and his tail swished .
" You are expecting too much of your beloved , Etienne .
Even a woman of the finest character may be dismayed in this situation . "
" But my mother - " " Your mother was an exception , a changeling of the Fairies .
You must not look for your mother 's soul in Joanna 's eyes . "
He jumped from his chair , and came towards me , resting his paw upon my knee .
" I am glad you have not spoken of me , Etienne .
Now you must keep your silence forever . "
I was shocked .
I reached down and touched my father 's silky fur , saddened by the look of his age in his gray , gold - flecked eyes , and by the tinge of yellow in his white coat .
" No , mon purr , " I said .
" Joanna must know the truth .
Joanna must know how proud I am to be the son of Edwarde Dauphin . "
" Then you will lose her . "
" Never !
That can not happen ! "
My father walked stiffly to the fireplace , staring into the gray ashes .
" Ring for Francois , " he said .
" Let him build the fire .
I am cold , Etienne . "
I walked to the cord and pulled it .
My father turned to me and said : " You must wait , my son .
At dinner this evening , perhaps .
Do not speak of me until then . "
" Very well , father . "
When I left the library , I encountered Joanna at the head of the stairway , and she spoke to me excitedly .
" Oh , Etienne !
What a beautiful old house .
I know I will love it !
May we see the rest ? "
" Of course , " I said .
" You look troubled .
Is something wrong ? "
" No , no .
I was thinking how lovely you are . "
We embraced , and her warm full body against mine confirmed my conviction that we should never be parted .
She put her arm in mine , and we strolled through the great rooms of the house .
She was ecstatic at their size and elegance , exclaiming over the carpeting , the gnarled furniture , the ancient silver and pewter , the gallery of family paintings .
When she came upon an early portrait of my mother , her eyes misted .
" She was lovely , " Joanna said .
" Like a princess !
And what of your father ?
Is there no portrait of him ? "
" No , " I said hurriedly .
" No portrait . "
I had spoken my first lie to Joanna , for there was a painting , half - completed , which my mother had begun in the last year of her life .
It was a whispering little watercolor , and Joanna discovered it to my consternation .
" What a magnificent cat ! "
she said .
" Was it a pet ? "
" It is Dauphin , " I said nervously .
She laughed .
" He has your eyes , Etienne . "
" Joanna , I must tell you something - " " And this ferocious gentleman with the moustaches ?
Who is he ? "
" My grandfather .
Joanna , you must listen - " Francois , who had been following our inspection tour at shadow 's - length , interrupted .
I suspected that his timing was no mere coincidence .
" We will be serving dinner at seven - thirty , " he said .
" If the lady would care to dress - " " Of course , " Joanna said .
" Will you excuse me , Etienne ? "
I bowed to her , and she was gone .
At fifteen minutes to the appointed dining time , I was ready , and hastened below to talk once more with my father .
He was in the dining room , instructing the servants as to the placement of the silver and accessories .
My father was proud of the excellence of his table , and took all his meals in the splendid manner .
His appreciation of food and wine was unsurpassed in my experience , and it had always been the greatest of pleasures for me to watch him at table , stalking across the damask and dipping delicately into the silver dishes prepared for him .
He pretended to be too busy with his dinner preparations to engage me in conversation , but I insisted .
" I must talk to you , " I said .
" We must decide together how to do this . "
" It will not be easy , " he answered with a twinkle .
" Consider Joanna 's view .
A cat as large and as old as myself is cause enough for comment .
A cat that speaks is alarming .
A cat that dines at table with the household is shocking .
And a cat whom you must introduce as your - " " Stop it ! "
I cried .
" Joanna must know the truth .
You must help me reveal it to her . "
" Then you will not heed my advice ? "
" In all things but this .
Our marriage can never be happy unless she accepts you for what you are . "
" And if there is no marriage ? "
I would not admit to this possibility .
Joanna was mine ; nothing could alter that .
The look of pain and bewilderment in my eyes must have been evident to my father , for he touched my arm gently with his paw and said : " I will help you , Etienne .
You must give me your trust . "
" Always ! "
" Then come to dinner with Joanna and explain nothing .
Wait for me to appear . "
I grasped his paw and raised it to my lips .
" Thank you , father ! "
He turned to Francois , and snapped : " You have my instructions ? "
" Yes , sir , " the servant replied .
" Then all is ready .
I shall return to my room now , Etienne .
You may bring your fiancee to dine . "
I hastened up the stairway , and found Joanna ready , strikingly beautiful in shimmering white satin .
Together , we descended the grand staircase and entered the room .
Her eyes shone at the magnificence of the service set upon the table , at the soldiery array of fine wines , some of them already poured into their proper glasses for my father 's enjoyment : Haut Medoc , from St. Estephe , authentic Chablis , Epernay Champagne , and an American import from the Napa Valley of which he was fond .
I waited expectantly for his appearance as we sipped our aperitif , while Joanna chatted about innocuous matters , with no idea of the tormented state I was in .
At eight o'clock , my father had not yet made his appearance , and I grew ever more distraught as Francois signalled for the serving of the bouillon au madere .
Had he changed his mind ?
Would I be left to explain my status without his help ?
I had n't realized until this moment how difficult a task I had allotted for myself , and the fear of losing Joanna was terrible within me .
The soup was flat and tasteless on my tongue , and the misery in my manner was too apparent for Joanna to miss .
" What is it , Etienne ? "
she said .
" You 've been so morose all day .
Ca n't you tell me what 's wrong ? "
" No , it 's nothing .
It 's just - " I let the impulse take possession of my speech .
" Joanna , there 's something I should tell you .
About my mother , and my father - " " Ahem , " Francois said .
He turned to the doorway , and our glances followed his .
" Oh , Etienne ! "
Joanna cried , in a voice ringing with delight .
It was my father , the cat , watching us with his gray , gold - flecked eyes .
He approached the dining table , regarding Joanna with timidity and caution .
" It 's the cat in the painting ! "
Joanna said .
" You did n't tell me he was here , Etienne .
He 's beautiful ! "
" Joanna , this is - " " Dauphin !
I would have known him anywhere .
Here , Dauphin !
Here , kitty , kitty , kitty ! "
Slowly , my father approached her outstretched hand , and allowed her to scratch the thick fur on the back of his neck .
" Are n't you the pretty little pussy !
Are n't you the sweetest little thing ! "
" Joanna ! "
She lifted my father by the haunches , and held him in her lap , stroking his fur and cooing the silly little words that women address to their pets .
The sight pained and confused me , and I sought to find an opening word that would allow me to explain , yet hoping all the time that my father would himself provide the answer .
Then my father spoke .
" Meow , " he said .
" Are you hungry ? "
Joanna asked solicitously .
" Is the little pussy hungry ? "
" Meow , " my father said , and I believed my heart broke then and there .
He leaped from her lap and padded across the room .
I watched him through blurred eyes as he followed Francois to the corner , where the servant had placed a shallow bowl of milk .
He lapped at it eagerly , until the last white drop was gone .
Then he yawned and stretched , and trotted back to the doorway , with one fleeting glance in my direction that spoke articulately of what I must do next .
" What a wonderful animal , " Joanna said .
" Yes , " I answered .
" He was my mother 's favorite . "
Tommy hated Earth , knowing his mother might go home to Mars without him .
Worse , would a robot secretly take her place ? ...
Tommy Benton , on his first visit to Earth , found the long - anticipated wonders of twenty - first - century New York thrilling the first week , boring and unhappy the second week , and at the end of the third he was definitely ready to go home .
The never - ending racket of traffic was torture to his abnormally acute ears .
Increased atmospheric pressure did funny things to his chest and stomach .
And quick and sure - footed on Mars , he struggled constantly against the heavy gravity that made all his movements clumsy and uncoordinated .
The endless canyons of towering buildings , with their connecting Skywalks , oppressed and smothered him .
Remembering the endless vistas of rabbara fields beside a canal that was like an inland sea , homesickness flooded over him .
He hated the people who stared at him with either open or hidden amusement .
His Aunt Bee , for instance , who looked him up and down with frank disapproval and said loudly , " For Heavens sake , Helen !
Take him to a good tailor and get those bones covered up ! "
Was it his fault he was six inches taller than Terran boys his age , and had long , thin arms and legs ?
Or that his chest was abnormally developed to compensate for an oxygen - thin atmosphere ?
I 'd like to see her , he thought fiercely , out on the Flatlands ; she 'd be gasping like a canal - fish out of water .
Even his parents , happily riding the social merry - go - round of Terra , after eleven years in the Martian flatlands , did n't seem to understand how he felt .
" Do n't you like Earth , Tommy ? "
queried his mother anxiously .
" Oh ... it 's all right , I guess . "
" ... ' A nice place to visit ' ... " said his father sardonically .
" ... ' but I would n't live here if they gave me the place ! '
... " said his mother , and they both burst out laughing for no reason that Tommy could see .
Of course , they did that lots of times at home and Tommy laughed with them just for the warm , secure feeling of belonging .
This time he did n't feel like laughing .
" When are we going home ? "
he repeated stubbornly .
His father pulled Tommy over in the crook of his arm and said gently , " Well , not right away , son .
As a matter of fact , how would you like to stay here and go to school ? "
Tommy pulled away and looked at him incredulously .
" I 've been to school ! "
" Well , yes , " admitted his father .
" But only to the colony schools .
You do n't want to grow up and be an ignorant Martian sandfoot all your life , do you ? "
" Yes , I do !
I want to be a Martian sandfoot .
And I want to go home where people do n't look at me and say , ' So this is your little Martian ! ' "
Benton , Sr . , put his arm around Tommy 's stiffly resistant shoulders .
" Look here , old man , " he said persuasively .
" I thought you wanted to be a space engineer .
You ca n't do that without an education you know .
And your Aunt Bee will take good care of you . "
Tommy faced him stubbornly .
" I do n't want to be any old spaceman .
I want to be a sandfoot like old Pete .
And I want to go home . "
Helen bit back a smile at the two earnest , stubborn faces so ridiculously alike , and hastened to avert the gathering storm .
" Now look , fellows .
Tommy 's career does n't have to be decided in the next five minutes ... after all , he 's only ten .
He can make up his mind later on if he wants to be an engineer or a rabbara farmer .
Right now , he 's going to stay here and go to school ... and I 'm staying with him . "
Resolutely avoiding both crestfallen faces , Helen , having shepherded Tommy to bed , returned to the living room acutely conscious of Big Tom 's bleak , hurt gaze at her back .
" Helen , you 're going to make a sissy out of the boy , " he said at last .
" There is n't any reason why he ca n't stay here at home with Bee . "
Helen turned to face him .
" Earth is n't home to Tommy .
And your sister Bee told him he ought to be out playing football with the boys instead of hanging around the house . "
" But she knows the doctor said he 'd have to take it easy for a year till he was accustomed to the change in gravity and air - pressure , " he answered incredulously .
" Exactly .
She also asked me , " Helen went on grimly , " if I thought he 'd be less of a freak as he got older . "
Tom Benton swore .
" Bee always did have less sense than the average hen , " he gritted .
" My son a freak !
Hell 's - bells ! "
Tommy , arriving at the hall door in time to hear the tail - end of the sentence , crept back to bed feeling numb and dazed .
So even his father thought he was a freak .
The last few days before parting was one of strain for all of them .
If Tommy was unnaturally subdued , no one noticed it ; his parents were not feeling any great impulse toward gaiety either .
They all went dutifully sight - seeing as before ; they saw the Zoo , and went shopping on the Skywalks , and on the last day wound up at the great showrooms of " Androids , Inc. " Tommy had hated them on sight ; they were at once too human and too inhuman for comfort .
The hotel was full of them , and most private homes had at least one .
Now they saw the great incubating vats , and the processing and finally the showroom where one of the finished products was on display as a maid , sweeping and dusting .
" There 's one that 's a dead - ringer for you , Helen .
If you were a little better looking , that is . "
Tommy 's dad pretended to compare them judicially .
Helen laughed , but Tommy looked at him with a resentfulness .
Comparing his mother to an Android .... " They say for a little extra you can get an exact resemblance .
Maybe I 'd better have one fixed up like you to take back with me , " Big Tom added teasingly .
Then as Helen 's face clouded over , " Oh , hon , you know I was only kidding .
Let 's get out of here ; this place gives me the collywobbles .
Besides , I 've got to pick up my watch . "
But his mother 's face was still unhappy and Tommy glowered sullenly at his father 's back all the way to the watch - shop .
It was a small shop , with an inconspicuous sign down in one corner of the window that said only , " KRUMBEIN - watches , " and was probably the most famous shop of its kind in the world .
Every spaceman landing on Terra left his watch to be checked by the dusty , little old man who was the genius of the place .
Tommy ranged wide - eyed about the clock and chronometer crammed interior .
He stopped fascinated before the last case .
In it was a watch ... but , what a watch !
Besides the regulation Terran dial , it had a second smaller dial that registered the corresponding time on Mars .
Tommy 's whole heart went out to it in an ecstasy of longing .
He thought wistfully that if you could know what time it was there , you could imagine what everyone was doing and it would n't seem so far away .
Haltingly , he tried to explain .
" Look , Mom , " he said breathlessly .
" It 's almost five o'clock at home .
Douwie will be coming up to the barn to be fed .
Gosh , do you suppose old Pete will remember about her ? "
His mother smiled at him reassuringly .
" Of course he will , silly .
Do n't forget he was the one who caught and tamed her for you . "
Tommy gulped as he thought of Douwie .
Scarcely as tall as himself ; the big , rounded , mouselike ears , and the flat , cloven pads that could carry her so swiftly over the sandy Martian flatlands .
One of the last dwindling herds of native Martian douwies , burden - carriers of a vanished race , she had been Tommy 's particular pride and joy for the last three years .
Behind him , Tommy heard his mother murmur under her breath , " Tom ... the watch ; could we ? "
And his Dad regretfully , " It 's a pretty expensive toy for a youngster , Helen .
And even a rabbara raiser 's bank account has limits . "
" Of course , dear ; it was silly of me . "
Helen smiled a little ruefully .
" And if Mr. Krumbein has your watch ready , we must go .
Bee and some of her friends are coming over , and it 's only a few hours ' till you ...
leave . "
Big Tom squeezed her elbow gently , understandingly , as she blinked back quick tears .
Trailing after them , Tommy saw the little by - play and his heart ached .
The guilt - complex building up in him grew and deepened .
He knew he had only to say , " Look , I do n't mind staying .
Aunt Bee and I will get along swell , " and everything would be all right again .
Then the terror of this new and complex world - as it would be without a familiar face - swept over him and kept him silent .
His overwrought feelings expressed themselves in a nervously rebelling stomach , culminating in a disgraceful moment over the nearest gutter .
The rest of the afternoon he spent in bed recuperating .
In the living room Aunt Bee spoke her mind in her usual , high - pitched voice .
" It 's disgraceful , Helen .
A boy his age .... None of the Bentons ever had nerves . "
His mother 's reply was inaudible , but on the heels of his father 's deeper tones , Aunt Bee 's voice rose in rasping indignation . "
Well !
I never !
And from my own brother , too .
From now on do n't come to me for help with your spoiled brat .
Good - bye ! "
The door slammed indignantly , his mother chuckled , and there was a spontaneous burst of laughter .
Tommy relaxed and lay back happily .
Anyway , that was the last of Aunt Bee !
The next hour or two passed in a flurry of ringing phones , people coming and going , and last - minute words and reminders .
Then suddenly it was time to leave .
Dad burst in for a last quick hug and a promise to send him pictures of Douwie and her foal , due next month ; Mother dropped a hasty kiss on his hair and promised to hurry back from the Spaceport .
Then Tommy was alone , with a large , painful lump where his heart ought to be .
The only activity was the almost noiseless buzzing as the hotel android ran the cleaner over the living room .
Presently even that ceased , and Tommy lay relaxed and inert , sleepily watching the curtains blow in and out at the open window .
Thirty stories above the street the noises were pleasantly muffled and remote , and his senses drifted aimlessly to and fro on the tides of half - sleep .
Drowsily his mind wandered from the hotel 's android servants ... to the strictly utilitarian mechanical monstrosity at home , known affectionately as " Old John " ... to the android showroom where they had seen the one that Dad said looked like Mother ....
He jolted suddenly , sickeningly awake .
Suppose , his mind whispered treacherously , suppose that Dad had ordered one to take Mom 's place ... not on Mars , but here while she returned to Mars with him .
Suppose that instead of Mom he discovered one of those Things ... or even worse , suppose he went on from day to day not even knowing ....
It was a bad five minutes ; he was wet with perspiration when he lay back on his pillows , a shaky smile tugging at the corners of his mouth .
He had a secret defense against the Terror .
He giggled a little at the thought of what Aunt Bee would say if she knew .
And what had brought him back from the edge of hysteria was the triumphant knowledge that with the abnormally acute hearing bred in the thin atmosphere of Mars , no robot ever created could hide from him the infinitesimal ticking of the electronic relays that gave it life .
Secure at last , his overstrung nerves relaxed and he slid gratefully over the edge of sleep .
He woke abruptly , groping after some vaguely remembered sound .
A soft clicking of heels down the hall .... Of course , his mother back from the Spaceport !
Now she would be stopping at his door to see if he were asleep .
He lay silently ; through his eyelashes he could see her outlined in the soft light from the hall .
She was coming in to see if he was tucked in .
In a moment he would jump up and startle her with a hug , as she leaned over him .
In a moment ....
Screaming desperately , he was out of bed , backing heedlessly across the room .
He was still screaming as the low sill of the open window caught him behind the knees and toppled him thirty stories to the street .
Alone in the silent room , Helen Benton stood dazed , staring blindly at the empty window .
Tommy 's parting gift from his father slid from her hand and lay on the carpet , still ticking gently .
It was 9:23 on Mars .
The neighbourhood of Bloomsbury Square towards four o'clock of a November afternoon is not so crowded as to secure to the stranger , of appearance anything out of the common , immunity from observation .
Tibb 's boy , screaming at the top of his voice that she was his honey , stopped suddenly , stepped backwards on to the toes of a voluble young lady wheeling a perambulator , and remained deaf , apparently , to the somewhat personal remarks of the voluble young lady .
Not until he had reached the next corner - and then more as a soliloquy than as information to the street - did Tibb 's boy recover sufficient interest in his own affairs to remark that he was her bee .
The voluble young lady herself , following some half - a - dozen yards behind , forgot her wrongs in contemplation of the stranger 's back .
There was this that was peculiar about the stranger 's back : that instead of being flat it presented a decided curve .
" It ai n't a ' ump , and it do n't look like kervitcher of the spine , " observed the voluble young lady to herself .
" Blimy if I do n't believe ' e 's taking ' ome ' is washing up his back . "
The constable at the corner , trying to seem busy doing nothing , noticed the stranger 's approach with gathering interest .
" That 's an odd sort of a walk of yours , young man , " thought the constable .
" You take care you do n't fall down and tumble over yourself . "
" Thought he was a young man , " murmured the constable , the stranger having passed him .
" He had a young face right enough . "
The daylight was fading .
The stranger , finding it impossible to read the name of the street upon the corner house , turned back .
" Why , ' tis a young man , " the constable told himself ; " a mere boy . "
" I beg your pardon , " said the stranger ; " but would you mind telling me my way to Bloomsbury Square . "
" This is Bloomsbury Square , " explained the constable ; " leastways round the corner is .
What number might you be wanting ? "
The stranger took from the ticket pocket of his tightly buttoned overcoat a piece of paper , unfolded it and read it out : " Mrs. Pennycherry .
Number Forty - eight . "
" Round to the left , " instructed him the constable ; " fourth house .
Been recommended there ? "
" By - by a friend , " replied the stranger .
" Thank you very much . "
" Ah , " muttered the constable to himself ; " guess you wo n't be calling him that by the end of the week , young - " " Funny , " added the constable , gazing after the retreating figure of the stranger .
" Seen plenty of the other sex as looked young behind and old in front .
This cove looks young in front and old behind .
Guess he 'll look old all round if he stops long at mother Pennycherry 's : stingy old cat . "
Constables whose beat included Bloomsbury Square had their reasons for not liking Mrs. Pennycherry .
Indeed it might have been difficult to discover any human being with reasons for liking that sharp - featured lady .
Maybe the keeping of second - rate boarding houses in the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury does not tend to develop the virtues of generosity and amiability .
Meanwhile the stranger , proceeding upon his way , had rung the bell of Number Forty - eight .
Mrs. Pennycherry , peeping from the area and catching a glimpse , above the railings , of a handsome if somewhat effeminate masculine face , hastened to readjust her widow 's cap before the looking - glass while directing Mary Jane to show the stranger , should he prove a problematical boarder , into the dining - room , and to light the gas .
" And do n't stop gossiping , and do n't you take it upon yourself to answer questions .
Say I 'll be up in a minute , " were Mrs. Pennycherry 's further instructions , " and mind you hide your hands as much as you can . "
" What are you grinning at ? "
demanded Mrs. Pennycherry , a couple of minutes later , of the dingy Mary Jane .
" Was n't grinning , " explained the meek Mary Jane , " was only smiling to myself . "
" What at ? "
" Dunno , " admitted Mary Jane .
But still she went on smiling .
" What 's he like then ? "
demanded Mrs. Pennycherry .
" ' E ai n't the usual sort , " was Mary Jane 's opinion .
" Thank God for that , " ejaculated Mrs. Pennycherry piously .
" Says ' e 's been recommended , by a friend . "
" By whom ? "
" By a friend .
' E did n't say no name . "
Mrs. Pennycherry pondered .
" He 's not the funny sort , is he ? "
Not that sort at all .
Mary Jane was sure of it .
Mrs. Pennycherry ascended the stairs still pondering .
As she entered the room the stranger rose and bowed .
Nothing could have been simpler than the stranger 's bow , yet there came with it to Mrs. Pennycherry a rush of old sensations long forgotten .
For one brief moment Mrs. Pennycherry saw herself an amiable well - bred lady , widow of a solicitor : a visitor had called to see her .
It was but a momentary fancy .
The next instant Reality reasserted itself .
Mrs. Pennycherry , a lodging - house keeper , existing precariously upon a daily round of petty meannesses , was prepared for contest with a possible new boarder , who fortunately looked an inexperienced young gentleman .
" Someone has recommended me to you , " began Mrs. Pennycherry ; " may I ask who ? "
But the stranger waved the question aside as immaterial .
" You might not remember - him , " he smiled .
" He thought that I should do well to pass the few months I am given - that I have to be in London , here .
You can take me in ? "
Mrs. Pennycherry thought that she would be able to take the stranger in .
" A room to sleep in , " explained the stranger , " - any room will do - with food and drink sufficient for a man , is all that I require . "
" For breakfast , " began Mrs. Pennycherry , " I always give - " " What is right and proper , I am convinced , " interrupted the stranger .
" Pray do not trouble to go into detail , Mrs. Pennycherry .
With whatever it is I shall be content . "
Mrs. Pennycherry , puzzled , shot a quick glance at the stranger , but his face , though the gentle eyes were smiling , was frank and serious .
" At all events you will see the room , " suggested Mrs. Pennycherry , " before we discuss terms . "
" Certainly , " agreed the stranger .
" I am a little tired and shall be glad to rest there . "
Mrs. Pennycherry led the way upward ; on the landing of the third floor , paused a moment undecided , then opened the door of the back bedroom .
" It is very comfortable , " commented the stranger .
" For this room , " stated Mrs. Pennycherry , " together with full board , consisting of - " " Of everything needful .
It goes without saying , " again interrupted the stranger with his quiet grave smile .
" I have generally asked , " continued Mrs. Pennycherry , " four pounds a week .
To you - " Mrs. Pennycherry 's voice , unknown to her , took to itself the note of aggressive generosity - " seeing you have been recommended here , say three pounds ten . "
" Dear lady , " said the stranger , " that is kind of you .
As you have divined , I am not a rich man .
If it be not imposing upon you I accept your reduction with gratitude . "
Again Mrs. Pennycherry , familiar with the satirical method , shot a suspicious glance upon the stranger , but not a line was there , upon that smooth fair face , to which a sneer could for a moment have clung .
Clearly he was as simple as he looked .
" Gas , of course , extra . "
" Of course , " agreed the Stranger .
" Coals - " " We shall not quarrel , " for a third time the stranger interrupted .
" You have been very considerate to me as it is .
I feel , Mrs. Pennycherry , I can leave myself entirely in your hands . "
The stranger appeared anxious to be alone .
Mrs. Pennycherry , having put a match to the stranger 's fire , turned to depart .
And at this point it was that Mrs. Pennycherry , the holder hitherto of an unbroken record for sanity , behaved in a manner she herself , five minutes earlier in her career , would have deemed impossible - that no living soul who had ever known her would have believed , even had Mrs. Pennycherry gone down upon her knees and sworn it to them .
" Did I say three pound ten ? "
demanded Mrs. Pennycherry of the stranger , her hand upon the door .
She spoke crossly .
She was feeling cross , with the stranger , with herself - particularly with herself .
" You were kind enough to reduce it to that amount , " replied the stranger ; " but if upon reflection you find yourself unable - " " I was making a mistake , " said Mrs. Pennycherry , " it should have been two pound ten . "
" I can not - I will not accept such sacrifice , " exclaimed the stranger ; " the three pound ten I can well afford . "
" Two pound ten are my terms , " snapped Mrs. Pennycherry .
" If you are bent on paying more , you can go elsewhere .
You 'll find plenty to oblige you . "
Her vehemence must have impressed the stranger .
" We will not contend further , " he smiled .
" I was merely afraid that in the goodness of your heart - " " Oh , it is n't as good as all that , " growled Mrs. Pennycherry .
" I am not so sure , " returned the stranger .
" I am somewhat suspicious of you .
But wilful woman must , I suppose , have her way . "
The stranger held out his hand , and to Mrs. Pennycherry , at that moment , it seemed the most natural thing in the world to take it as if it had been the hand of an old friend and to end the interview with a pleasant laugh - though laughing was an exercise not often indulged in by Mrs. Pennycherry .
Mary Jane was standing by the window , her hands folded in front of her , when Mrs. Pennycherry re - entered the kitchen .
By standing close to the window one caught a glimpse of the trees in Bloomsbury Square and through their bare branches of the sky beyond .
" There 's nothing much to do for the next half hour , till Cook comes back .
I 'll see to the door if you 'd like a run out ? "
suggested Mrs. Pennycherry .
" It would be nice , " agreed the girl so soon as she had recovered power of speech ; " it 's just the time of day I like . "
" Do n't be longer than the half hour , " added Mrs. Pennycherry .
Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square , assembled after dinner in the drawing - room , discussed the stranger with that freedom and frankness characteristic of Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square , towards the absent .
" Not what I call a smart young man , " was the opinion of Augustus Longcord , who was something in the City .
" Thpeaking for mythelf , " commented his partner Isidore , " hav'n'th any uthe for the thmart young man .
Too many of him , ath it ith . "
" Must be pretty smart if he 's one too many for you , " laughed his partner .
There was this to be said for the repartee of Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square : it was simple of construction and easy of comprehension .
" Well it made me feel good just looking at him , " declared Miss Kite , the highly coloured .
" It was his clothes , I suppose - made me think of Noah and the ark - all that sort of thing . "
" It would be clothes that would make you think - if anything , " drawled the languid Miss Devine .
She was a tall , handsome girl , engaged at the moment in futile efforts to recline with elegance and comfort combined upon a horsehair sofa .
Miss Kite , by reason of having secured the only easy - chair , was unpopular that evening ; so that Miss Devine 's remark received from the rest of the company more approbation than perhaps it merited .
" Is that intended to be clever , dear , or only rude ? "
Miss Kite requested to be informed .
" Both , " claimed Miss Devine .
" Myself ?
I must confess , " shouted the tall young lady 's father , commonly called the Colonel , " I found him a fool . "
" I noticed you seemed to be getting on very well together , " purred his wife , a plump , smiling little lady .
" Possibly we were , " retorted the Colonel .
" Fate has accustomed me to the society of fools . "
" Is n't it a pity to start quarrelling immediately after dinner , you two , " suggested their thoughtful daughter from the sofa , " you 'll have nothing left to amuse you for the rest of the evening . "
" He did n't strike me as a conversationalist , " said the lady who was cousin to a baronet ; " but he did pass the vegetables before he helped himself .
A little thing like that shows breeding . "
" Or that he did n't know you and thought maybe you 'd leave him half a spoonful , " laughed Augustus the wit .
" What I ca n't make out about him - " shouted the Colonel .
The stranger entered the room .
The Colonel , securing the evening paper , retired into a corner .
The highly coloured Kite , reaching down from the mantelpiece a paper fan , held it coyly before her face .
Miss Devine sat upright on the horse - hair sofa , and rearranged her skirts .
" Know anything ? "
demanded Augustus of the stranger , breaking the somewhat remarkable silence .
The stranger evidently did not understand .
It was necessary for Augustus , the witty , to advance further into that odd silence .
" What 's going to pull off the Lincoln handicap ?
Tell me , and I 'll go out straight and put my shirt upon it . "
" I think you would act unwisely , " smiled the stranger ; " I am not an authority upon the subject . "
" Not !
Why they told me you were Captain Spy of the Sporting Life - in disguise . "
It would have been difficult for a joke to fall more flat .
Nobody laughed , though why Mr. Augustus Longcord could not understand , and maybe none of his audience could have told him , for at Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square Mr. Augustus Longcord passed as a humorist .
The stranger himself appeared unaware that he was being made fun of .
" You have been misinformed , " assured him the stranger .
" I beg your pardon , " said Mr. Augustus Longcord .
" It is nothing , " replied the stranger in his sweet low voice , and passed on .
" Well what about this theatre , " demanded Mr. Longcord of his friend and partner ; " do you want to go or do n't you ? "
Mr. Longcord was feeling irritable .
" Goth the ticketh - may ath well , " thought Isidore .
" Damn stupid piece , I 'm told . "
" Motht of them thupid , more or leth .
Pity to wathte the ticketh , " argued Isidore , and the pair went out .
" Are you staying long in London ? "
asked Miss Kite , raising her practised eyes towards the stranger .
" Not long , " answered the stranger .
" At least I do not know .
It depends . "
An unusual quiet had invaded the drawing - room of Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square , generally noisy with strident voices about this hour .
The Colonel remained engrossed in his paper .
Mrs. Devine sat with her plump white hands folded on her lap , whether asleep or not it was impossible to say .
The lady who was cousin to a baronet had shifted her chair beneath the gasolier , her eyes bent on her everlasting crochet work .
The languid Miss Devine had crossed to the piano , where she sat fingering softly the tuneless keys , her back to the cold barely - furnished room .
" Sit down ! "
commanded saucily Miss Kite , indicating with her fan the vacant seat beside her .
" Tell me about yourself .
You interest me . "
Miss Kite adopted a pretty authoritative air towards all youthful - looking members of the opposite sex .
It harmonised with the peach complexion and the golden hair , and fitted her about as well .
" I am glad of that , " answered the stranger , taking the chair suggested .
" I so wish to interest you . "
" You 're a very bold boy . "
Miss Kite lowered her fan , for the purpose of glancing archly over the edge of it , and for the first time encountered the eyes of the stranger looking into hers .
And then it was that Miss Kite experienced precisely the same curious sensation that an hour or so ago had troubled Mrs. Pennycherry when the stranger had first bowed to her .
It seemed to Miss Kite that she was no longer the Miss Kite that , had she risen and looked into it , the fly - blown mirror over the marble mantelpiece would , she knew , have presented to her view ; but quite another Miss Kite - a cheerful , bright - eyed lady verging on middle age , yet still good - looking in spite of her faded complexion and somewhat thin brown locks .
Miss Kite felt a pang of jealousy shoot through her ; this middle - aged Miss Kite seemed , on the whole , a more attractive lady .
There was a wholesomeness , a broadmindedness about her that instinctively drew one towards her .
Not hampered , as Miss Kite herself was , by the necessity of appearing to be somewhere between eighteen and twenty - two , this other Miss Kite could talk sensibly , even brilliantly : one felt it .
A thoroughly " nice " woman this other Miss Kite ; the real Miss Kite , though envious , was bound to admit it .
Miss Kite wished to goodness she had never seen the woman .
The glimpse of her had rendered Miss Kite dissatisfied with herself .
" I am not a boy , " explained the stranger ; " and I had no intention of being bold . "
" I know , " replied Miss Kite .
" It was a silly remark .
Whatever induced me to make it , I ca n't think .
Getting foolish in my old age , I suppose . "
The stranger laughed .
" Surely you are not old . "
" I 'm thirty - nine , " snapped out Miss Kite .
" You do n't call it young ? "
" I think it a beautiful age , " insisted the stranger ; " young enough not to have lost the joy of youth , old enough to have learnt sympathy . "
" Oh , I daresay , " returned Miss Kite , " any age you 'd think beautiful .
I 'm going to bed . "
Miss Kite rose .
The paper fan had somehow got itself broken .
She threw the fragments into the fire .
" It is early yet , " pleaded the stranger , " I was looking forward to a talk with you . "
" Well , you 'll be able to look forward to it , " retorted Miss Kite .
" Good - night . "
The truth was , Miss Kite was impatient to have a look at herself in the glass , in her own room with the door shut .
The vision of that other Miss Kite - the clean - looking lady of the pale face and the brown hair had been so vivid , Miss Kite wondered whether temporary forgetfulness might not have fallen upon her while dressing for dinner that evening .
The stranger , left to his own devices , strolled towards the loo table , seeking something to read .
" You seem to have frightened away Miss Kite , " remarked the lady who was cousin to a baronet .
" It seems so , " admitted the stranger .
" My cousin , Sir William Bosster , " observed the crocheting lady , " who married old Lord Egham 's niece - you never met the Eghams ? "
" Hitherto , " replied the stranger , " I have not had that pleasure . "
" A charming family .
Can not understand - my cousin Sir William , I mean , can not understand my remaining here .
' My dear Emily ' - he says the same thing every time he sees me : ' My dear Emily , how can you exist among the sort of people one meets with in a boarding - house . '
But they amuse me . "
A sense of humour , agreed the stranger , was always of advantage .
" Our family on my mother 's side , " continued Sir William 's cousin in her placid monotone , " was connected with the Tatton - Joneses , who when King George the Fourth - " Sir William 's cousin , needing another reel of cotton , glanced up , and met the stranger 's gaze .
" I 'm sure I do n't know why I 'm telling you all this , " said Sir William 's cousin in an irritable tone .
" It ca n't possibly interest you . "
" Everything connected with you interests me , " gravely the stranger assured her .
" It is very kind of you to say so , " sighed Sir William 's cousin , but without conviction ; " I am afraid sometimes I bore people . "
The polite stranger refrained from contradiction .
" You see , " continued the poor lady , " I really am of good family . "
" Dear lady , " said the stranger , " your gentle face , your gentle voice , your gentle bearing , all proclaim it . "
She looked without flinching into the stranger 's eyes , and gradually a smile banished the reigning dulness of her features .
" How foolish of me . "
She spoke rather to herself than to the stranger .
" Why , of course , people - people whose opinion is worth troubling about - judge of you by what you are , not by what you go about saying you are . "
The stranger remained silent .
" I am the widow of a provincial doctor , with an income of just two hundred and thirty pounds per annum , " she argued .
" The sensible thing for me to do is to make the best of it , and to worry myself about these high and mighty relations of mine as little as they have ever worried themselves about me . "
The stranger appeared unable to think of anything worth saying .
" I have other connections , " remembered Sir William 's cousin ; " those of my poor husband , to whom instead of being the ' poor relation ' I could be the fairy god - mama .
They are my people - or would be , " added Sir William 's cousin tartly , " if I was n't a vulgar snob . "
She flushed the instant she had said the words and , rising , commenced preparations for a hurried departure .
" Now it seems I am driving you away , " sighed the stranger .
" Having been called a ' vulgar snob , ' " retorted the lady with some heat , " I think it about time I went . "
" The words were your own , " the stranger reminded her .
" Whatever I may have thought , " remarked the indignant dame , " no lady - least of all in the presence of a total stranger - would have called herself - " The poor dame paused , bewildered .
" There is something very curious the matter with me this evening , that I can not understand , " she explained , " I seem quite unable to avoid insulting myself . "
Still surrounded by bewilderment , she wished the stranger good - night , hoping that when next they met she would be more herself .
The stranger , hoping so also , opened the door and closed it again behind her .
" Tell me , " laughed Miss Devine , who by sheer force of talent was contriving to wring harmony from the reluctant piano , " how did you manage to do it ?
I should like to know . "
" How did I do what ? "
inquired the stranger .
" Contrive to get rid so quickly of those two old frumps ? "
" How well you play ! "
observed the stranger .
" I knew you had genius for music the moment I saw you . "
" How could you tell ? "
" It is written so clearly in your face . "
The girl laughed , well pleased .
" You seem to have lost no time in studying my face . "
" It is a beautiful and interesting face , " observed the stranger .
She swung round sharply on the stool and their eyes met .
" You can read faces ? "
" Yes . "
" Tell me , what else do you read in mine ? "
" Frankness , courage - " " Ah , yes , all the virtues .
Perhaps .
We will take them for granted . "
It was odd how serious the girl had suddenly become .
" Tell me the reverse side . "
" I see no reverse side , " replied the stranger .
" I see but a fair girl , bursting into noble womanhood . "
" And nothing else ?
You read no trace of greed , of vanity , of sordidness , of - " An angry laugh escaped her lips .
" And you are a reader of faces ! "
" A reader of faces . "
The stranger smiled .
" Do you know what is written upon yours at this very moment ?
A love of truth that is almost fierce , scorn of lies , scorn of hypocrisy , the desire for all things pure , contempt of all things that are contemptible - especially of such things as are contemptible in woman .
Tell me , do I not read aright ? "
I wonder , thought the girl , is that why those two others both hurried from the room ?
Does everyone feel ashamed of the littleness that is in them when looked at by those clear , believing eyes of yours ?
The idea occurred to her : " Papa seemed to have a good deal to say to you during dinner .
Tell me , what were you talking about ? "
" The military looking gentleman upon my left ?
We talked about your mother principally . "
" I am sorry , " returned the girl , wishful now she had not asked the question .
" I was hoping he might have chosen another topic for the first evening ! "
" He did try one or two , " admitted the stranger ; " but I have been about the world so little , I was glad when he talked to me about himself .
I feel we shall be friends .
He spoke so nicely , too , about Mrs.
Devine . "
" Indeed , " commented the girl .
" He told me he had been married for twenty years and had never regretted it but once ! "
Her black eyes flashed upon him , but meeting his , the suspicion died from them .
She turned aside to hide her smile .
" So he regretted it - once . "
" Only once , " explained the stranger , " in a passing irritable mood .
It was so frank of him to admit it .
He told me - I think he has taken a liking to me .
Indeed he hinted as much .
He said he did not often get an opportunity of talking to a man like myself - he told me that he and your mother , when they travel together , are always mistaken for a honeymoon couple .
Some of the experiences he related to me were really quite amusing . "
The stranger laughed at recollection of them - " that even here , in this place , they are generally referred to as ' Darby and Joan . ' "
" Yes , " said the girl , " that is true .
Mr. Longcord gave them that name , the second evening after our arrival .
It was considered clever - but rather obvious I thought myself . "
" Nothing - so it seems to me , " said the stranger , " is more beautiful than the love that has weathered the storms of life .
The sweet , tender blossom that flowers in the heart of the young - in hearts such as yours - that , too , is beautiful .
The love of the young for the young , that is the beginning of life .
But the love of the old for the old , that is the beginning of - of things longer . "
" You seem to find all things beautiful , " the girl grumbled .
" But are not all things beautiful ? "
demanded the stranger .
The Colonel had finished his paper .
" You two are engaged in a very absorbing conversation , " observed the Colonel , approaching them .
" We were discussing Darbies and Joans , " explained his daughter .
" How beautiful is the love that has weathered the storms of life ! "
" Ah ! "
smiled the Colonel , " that is hardly fair .
My friend has been repeating to cynical youth the confessions of an amorous husband 's affection for his middle - aged and somewhat - " The Colonel in playful mood laid his hand upon the stranger 's shoulder , an action that necessitated his looking straight into the stranger 's eyes .
The Colonel drew himself up stiffly and turned scarlet .
Somebody was calling the Colonel a cad .
Not only that , but was explaining quite clearly , so that the Colonel could see it for himself , why he was a cad .
" That you and your wife lead a cat and dog existence is a disgrace to both of you .
At least you might have the decency to try and hide it from the world - not make a jest of your shame to every passing stranger .
You are a cad , sir , a cad ! "
Who was daring to say these things ?
Not the stranger , his lips had not moved .
Besides , it was not his voice .
Indeed it sounded much more like the voice of the Colonel himself .
The Colonel looked from the stranger to his daughter , from his daughter back to the stranger .
Clearly they had not heard the voice - a mere hallucination .
The Colonel breathed again .
Yet the impression remaining was not to be shaken off .
Undoubtedly it was bad taste to have joked to the stranger upon such a subject .
No gentleman would have done so .
But then no gentleman would have permitted such a jest to be possible .
No gentleman would be forever wrangling with his wife - certainly never in public .
However irritating the woman , a gentleman would have exercised self - control .
Mrs. Devine had risen , was coming slowly across the room .
Fear laid hold of the Colonel .
She was going to address some aggravating remark to him - he could see it in her eye - which would irritate him into savage retort .
Even this prize idiot of a stranger would understand why boarding - house wits had dubbed them " Darby and Joan , " would grasp the fact that the gallant Colonel had thought it amusing , in conversation with a table acquaintance , to hold his own wife up to ridicule .
" My dear , " cried the Colonel , hurrying to speak first , " does not this room strike you as cold ?
Let me fetch you a shawl . "
It was useless : the Colonel felt it .
It had been too long the custom of both of them to preface with politeness their deadliest insults to each other .
She came on , thinking of a suitable reply : suitable from her point of view , that is .
In another moment the truth would be out .
A wild , fantastic possibility flashed through the Colonel 's brain : If to him , why not to her ?
" Letitia , " cried the Colonel , and the tone of his voice surprised her into silence , " I want you to look closely at our friend .
Does he not remind you of someone ? "
Mrs. Devine , so urged , looked at the stranger long and hard .
" Yes , " she murmured , turning to her husband , " he does , who is it ? "
" I can not fix it , " replied the Colonel ; " I thought that maybe you would remember . "
" It will come to me , " mused Mrs. Devine .
" It is someone - years ago , when I was a girl - in Devonshire .
Thank you , if it is n't troubling you , Harry .
I left it in the dining - room . "
It was , as Mr. Augustus Longcord explained to his partner Isidore , the colossal foolishness of the stranger that was the cause of all the trouble .
" Give me a man , who can take care of himself - or thinks he can , " declared Augustus Longcord , " and I am prepared to give a good account of myself .
But when a helpless baby refuses even to look at what you call your figures , tells you that your mere word is sufficient for him , and hands you over his cheque - book to fill up for yourself - well , it is n't playing the game . "
" Auguthuth , " was the curt comment of his partner , " you 're a fool . "
" All right , my boy , you try , " suggested Augustus .
" Jutht what I mean to do , " asserted his partner .
" Well , " demanded Augustus one evening later , meeting Isidore ascending the stairs after a long talk with the stranger in the dining - room with the door shut .
" Oh , do n't arth me , " retorted Isidore , " thilly ath , thath what he ith . "
" What did he say ? "
" What did he thay !
talked about the Jewth : what a grand rathe they were - how people mithjudged them : all that thort of rot .
" Thaid thome of the motht honorable men he had ever met had been Jewth .
Thought I wath one of 'em ! "
" Well , did you get anything out of him ? "
" Get anything out of him .
Of courthe not .
Could n't very well thell the whole rathe , ath it were , for a couple of hundred poundth , after that .
Did n't theem worth it . "
There were many things Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square came gradually to the conclusion were not worth the doing : - Snatching at the gravy ; pouncing out of one 's turn upon the vegetables and helping oneself to more than one 's fair share ; manoeuvering for the easy - chair ; sitting on the evening paper while pretending not to have seen it - all such - like tiresome bits of business .
For the little one made out of it , really it was not worth the bother .
Grumbling everlastingly at one 's food ; grumbling everlastingly at most things ; abusing Pennycherry behind her back ; abusing , for a change , one 's fellow - boarders ; squabbling with one 's fellow - boarders about nothing in particular ; sneering at one 's fellow - boarders ; talking scandal of one 's fellow - boarders ; making senseless jokes about one 's fellow - boarders ; talking big about oneself , nobody believing one - all such - like vulgarities .
Other boarding - houses might indulge in them : Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square had its dignity to consider .
The truth is , Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square was coming to a very good opinion of itself : for the which not Bloomsbury Square so much as the stranger must be blamed .
The stranger had arrived at Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square with the preconceived idea - where obtained from Heaven knows - that its seemingly commonplace , mean - minded , coarse - fibred occupants were in reality ladies and gentlemen of the first water ; and time and observation had apparently only strengthened this absurd idea .
The natural result was , Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square was coming round to the stranger 's opinion of itself .
Mrs. Pennycherry , the stranger would persist in regarding as a lady born and bred , compelled by circumstances over which she had no control to fill an arduous but honorable position of middle - class society - a sort of foster - mother , to whom were due the thanks and gratitude of her promiscuous family ; and this view of herself Mrs. Pennycherry now clung to with obstinate conviction .
There were disadvantages attaching , but these Mrs. Pennycherry appeared prepared to suffer cheerfully .
A lady born and bred can not charge other ladies and gentlemen for coals and candles they have never burnt ; a foster - mother can not palm off upon her children New Zealand mutton for Southdown .
A mere lodging - house - keeper can play these tricks , and pocket the profits .
But a lady feels she can not : Mrs. Pennycherry felt she no longer could .
To the stranger Miss Kite was a witty and delightful conversationalist of most attractive personality .
Miss Kite had one failing : it was lack of vanity .
She was unaware of her own delicate and refined beauty .
If Miss Kite could only see herself with his , the stranger 's eyes , the modesty that rendered her distrustful of her natural charms would fall from her .
The stranger was so sure of it Miss Kite determined to put it to the test .
One evening , an hour before dinner , there entered the drawing - room , when the stranger only was there and before the gas was lighted , a pleasant , good - looking lady , somewhat pale , with neatly - arranged brown hair , who demanded of the stranger if he knew her .
All her body was trembling , and her voice seemed inclined to run away from her and become a sob .
But when the stranger , looking straight into her eyes , told her that from the likeness he thought she must be Miss Kite 's younger sister , but much prettier , it became a laugh instead : and that evening the golden - haired Miss Kite disappeared never to show her high - coloured face again ; and what perhaps , more than all else , might have impressed some former habitue of Forty - eight Bloomsbury Square with awe , it was that no one in the house made even a passing inquiry concerning her .
Sir William 's cousin the stranger thought an acquisition to any boarding - house .
A lady of high - class family !
There was nothing outward or visible perhaps to tell you that she was of high - class family .
She herself , naturally , would not mention the fact , yet somehow you felt it .
Unconsciously she set a high - class tone , diffused an atmosphere of gentle manners .
Not that the stranger had said this in so many words ; Sir William 's cousin gathered that he thought it , and felt herself in agreement with him .
For Mr. Longcord and his partner , as representatives of the best type of business men , the stranger had a great respect .
With what unfortunate results to themselves has been noted .
The curious thing is that the Firm appeared content with the price they had paid for the stranger 's good opinion - had even , it was rumoured , acquired a taste for honest men 's respect - that in the long run was likely to cost them dear .
But we all have our pet extravagance .
The Colonel and Mrs. Devine both suffered a good deal at first from the necessity imposed upon them of learning , somewhat late in life , new tricks .
In the privacy of their own apartment they condoled with one another .
" Tomfool nonsense , " grumbled the Colonel , " you and I starting billing and cooing at our age ! "
" What I object to , " said Mrs. Devine , " is the feeling that somehow I am being made to do it . "
" The idea that a man and his wife can not have their little joke together for fear of what some impertinent jackanapes may think of them !
it 's damn ridiculous , " the Colonel exploded .
" Even when he is n't there , " said Mrs. Devine , " I seem to see him looking at me with those vexing eyes of his .
Really the man quite haunts me . "
" I have met him somewhere , " mused the Colonel , " I 'll swear I 've met him somewhere .
I wish to goodness he would go . "
A hundred things a day the Colonel wanted to say to Mrs. Devine , a hundred things a day Mrs. Devine would have liked to observe to the Colonel .
But by the time the opportunity occurred - when nobody else was by to hear - all interest in saying them was gone .
" Women will be women , " was the sentiment with which the Colonel consoled himself .
" A man must bear with them - must never forget that he is a gentleman . "
" Oh , well , I suppose they 're all alike , " laughed Mrs. Devine to herself , having arrived at that stage of despair when one seeks refuge in cheerfulness .
" What 's the use of putting oneself out - it does no good , and only upsets one . "
There is a certain satisfaction in feeling you are bearing with heroic resignation the irritating follies of others .
Colonel and Mrs. Devine came to enjoy the luxury of much self - approbation .
But the person seriously annoyed by the stranger 's bigoted belief in the innate goodness of everyone he came across was the languid , handsome Miss Devine .
The stranger would have it that Miss Devine was a noble - souled , high - minded young woman , something midway between a Flora Macdonald and a Joan of Arc .
Miss Devine , on the contrary , knew herself to be a sleek , luxury - loving animal , quite willing to sell herself to the bidder who could offer her the finest clothes , the richest foods , the most sumptuous surroundings .
Such a bidder was to hand in the person of a retired bookmaker , a somewhat greasy old gentleman , but exceedingly rich and undoubtedly fond of her .
Miss Devine , having made up her mind that the thing had got to be done , was anxious that it should be done quickly .
And here it was that the stranger 's ridiculous opinion of her not only irritated but inconvenienced her .
Under the very eyes of a person - however foolish - convinced that you are possessed of all the highest attributes of your sex , it is difficult to behave as though actuated by only the basest motives .
A dozen times had Miss Devine determined to end the matter by formal acceptance of her elderly admirer 's large and flabby hand , and a dozen times - the vision intervening of the stranger 's grave , believing eyes - had Miss Devine refused decided answer .
The stranger would one day depart .
Indeed , he had told her himself , he was but a passing traveller .
When he was gone it would be easier .
So she thought at the time .
One afternoon the stranger entered the room where she was standing by the window , looking out upon the bare branches of the trees in Bloomsbury Square .
She remembered afterwards , it was just such another foggy afternoon as the afternoon of the stranger 's arrival three months before .
No one else was in the room .
The stranger closed the door , and came towards her with that curious , quick - leaping step of his .
His long coat was tightly buttoned , and in his hands he carried his old felt hat and the massive knotted stick that was almost a staff .
" I have come to say good - bye , " explained the stranger .
" I am going . "
" I shall not see you again ? "
asked the girl .
" I can not say , " replied the stranger .
" But you will think of me ? "
" Yes , " she answered with a smile , " I can promise that . "
" And I shall always remember you , " promised the stranger , " and I wish you every joy - the joy of love , the joy of a happy marriage . "
The girl winced .
" Love and marriage are not always the same thing , " she said .
" Not always , " agreed the stranger , " but in your case they will be one . "
She looked at him .
" Do you think I have not noticed ? "
smiled the stranger , " a gallant , handsome lad , and clever .
You love him and he loves you .
I could not have gone away without knowing it was well with you . "
Her gaze wandered towards the fading light .
" Ah , yes , I love him , " she answered petulantly .
" Your eyes can see clearly enough , when they want to .
But one does not live on love , in our world .
I will tell you the man I am going to marry if you care to know . "
She would not meet his eyes .
She kept her gaze still fixed upon the dingy trees , the mist beyond , and spoke rapidly and vehemently : " The man who can give me all my soul 's desire - money and the things that money can buy .
You think me a woman , I 'm only a pig .
He is moist , and breathes like a porpoise ; with cunning in place of a brain , and the rest of him mere stomach .
But he is good enough for me . "
She hoped this would shock the stranger and that now , perhaps , he would go .
It irritated her to hear him only laugh .
" No , " he said , " you will not marry him . "
" Who will stop me ? "
she cried angrily .
" Your Better Self . "
His voice had a strange ring of authority , compelling her to turn and look upon his face .
Yes , it was true , the fancy that from the very first had haunted her .
She had met him , talked to him - in silent country roads , in crowded city streets , where was it ?
And always in talking with him her spirit had been lifted up : she had been - what he had always thought her .
" There are those , " continued the stranger ( and for the first time she saw that he was of a noble presence , that his gentle , child - like eyes could also command ) , " whose Better Self lies slain by their own hand and troubles them no more .
But yours , my child , you have let grow too strong ; it will ever be your master .
You must obey .
Flee from it and it will follow you ; you can not escape it .
Insult it and it will chastise you with burning shame , with stinging self - reproach from day to day . "
The sternness faded from the beautiful face , the tenderness crept back .
He laid his hand upon the young girl 's shoulder .
" You will marry your lover , " he smiled .
" With him you will walk the way of sunlight and of shadow . "
And the girl , looking up into the strong , calm face , knew that it would be so , that the power of resisting her Better Self had passed away from her for ever .
" Now , " said the stranger , " come to the door with me .
Leave - takings are but wasted sadness .
Let me pass out quietly .
Close the door softly behind me . "
She thought that perhaps he would turn his face again , but she saw no more of him than the odd roundness of his back under the tightly buttoned coat , before he faded into the gathering fog .
Then softly she closed the door .
I did it - I who should have known better .
I persuaded Reginald to go to the McKillops ' garden - party against his will .
We all make mistakes occasionally .
" They know you 're here , and they 'll think it so funny if you do n't go .
And I want particularly to be in with Mrs. McKillop just now . "
" I know , you want one of her smoke Persian kittens as a prospective wife for Wumples - or a husband , is it ? "
( Reginald has a magnificent scorn for details , other than sartorial . )
" And I am expected to undergo social martyrdom to suit the connubial exigencies " - " Reginald !
It 's nothing of the kind , only I 'm sure Mrs. McKillop Would be pleased if I brought you .
Young men of your brilliant attractions are rather at a premium at her garden - parties . "
" Should be at a premium in heaven , " remarked Reginald complacently .
" There will be very few of you there , if that is what you mean .
But seriously , there wo n't be any great strain upon your powers of endurance ; I promise you that you sha n't have to play croquet , or talk to the Archdeacon 's wife , or do anything that is likely to bring on physical prostration .
You can just wear your sweetest clothes and moderately amiable expression , and eat chocolate - creams with the appetite of a blase parrot .
Nothing more is demanded of you . "
Reginald shut his eyes .
" There will be the exhaustingly up - to - date young women who will ask me if I have seen San Toy ; a less progressive grade who will yearn to hear about the Diamond Jubilee - the historic event , not the horse .
With a little encouragement , they will inquire if I saw the Allies march into Paris .
Why are women so fond of raking up the past ?
They 're as bad as tailors , who invariably remember what you owe them for a suit long after you 've ceased to wear it . "
" I 'll order lunch for one o'clock ; that will give you two and a half hours to dress in . "
Reginald puckered his brow into a tortured frown , and I knew that my point was gained .
He was debating what tie would go with which waistcoat .
Even then I had my misgivings .
During the drive to the McKillops ' Reginald was possessed with a great peace , which was not wholly to be accounted for by the fact that he had inveigled his feet into shoes a size too small for them .
I misgave more than ever , and having once launched Reginald on to the McKillops ' lawn , I established him near a seductive dish of marrons glaces , and as far from the Archdeacon 's wife as possible ; as I drifted away to a diplomatic distance I heard with painful distinctness the eldest Mawkby girl asking him if he had seen San Toy .
It must have been ten minutes later , not more , and I had been having quite an enjoyable chat with my hostess , and had promised to lend her The Eternal City and my recipe for rabbit mayonnaise , and was just about to offer a kind home for her third Persian kitten , when I perceived , out of the corner of my eye , that Reginald was not where I had left him , and that the marrons glaces were untasted .
At the same moment I became aware that old Colonel Mendoza was essaying to tell his classic story of how he introduced golf into India , and that Reginald was in dangerous proximity .
There are occasions when Reginald is caviare to the Colonel .
" When I was at Poona in ' 76 " - " My dear Colonel , " purred Reginald , " fancy admitting such a thing !
Such a give - away for one 's age !
I would n't admit being on this planet in ' 76 . "
( Reginald in his wildest lapses into veracity never admits to being more than twenty - two . )
The Colonel went to the colour of a fig that has attained great ripeness , and Reginald , ignoring my efforts to intercept him , glided away to another part of the lawn .
I found him a few minutes later happily engaged in teaching the youngest Rampage boy the approved theory of mixing absinthe , within full earshot of his mother .
Mrs. Rampage occupies a prominent place in local Temperance movements .
As soon as I had broken up this unpromising tete - a - tete and settled Reginald where he could watch the croquet players losing their tempers , I wandered off to find my hostess and renew the kitten negotiations at the point where they had been interrupted .
I did not succeed in running her down at once , and eventually it was Mrs. McKillop who sought me out , and her conversation was not of kittens .
" Your cousin is discussing Zaza with the Archdeacon 's wife ; at least , he is discussing , she is ordering her carriage . "
She spoke in the dry , staccato tone of one who repeats a French exercise , and I knew that as far as Millie McKillop was concerned , Wumples was devoted to a lifelong celibacy .
" If you do n't mind , " I said hurriedly , " I think we 'd like our carriage ordered too , " and I made a forced march in the direction of the croquet - ground .
I found everyone talking nervously and feverishly of the weather and the war in South Africa , except Reginald , who was reclining in a comfortable chair with the dreamy , far - away look that a volcano might wear just after it had desolated entire villages .
The Archdeacon 's wife was buttoning up her gloves with a concentrated deliberation that was fearful to behold .
I shall have to treble my subscription to her Cheerful Sunday Evenings Fund before I dare set foot in her house again .
At that particular moment the croquet players finished their game , which had been going on without a symptom of finality during the whole afternoon .
Why , I ask , should it have stopped precisely when a counter - attraction was so necessary ?
Everyone seemed to drift towards the area of disturbance , of which the chairs of the Archdeacon 's wife and Reginald formed the storm - centre .
Conversation flagged , and there settled upon the company that expectant hush that precedes the dawn - when your neighbours do n't happen to keep poultry .
" What did the Caspian Sea ? "
asked Reginald , with appalling suddenness .
There were symptoms of a stampede .
The Archdeacon 's wife looked at me .
Kipling or someone has described somewhere the look a foundered camel gives when the caravan moves on and leaves it to its fate .
The peptonised reproach in the good lady 's eyes brought the passage vividly to my mind .
I played my last card .
" Reginald , it 's getting late , and a sea - mist is coming on . "
I knew that the elaborate curl over his right eyebrow was not guaranteed to survive a sea - mist .
" Never , never again , will I take you to a garden - party .
Never ... You behaved abominably ... What did the Caspian see ? "
A shade of genuine regret for misused opportunities passed over Reginald 's face .
" After all , " he said , " I believe an apricot tie would have gone better with the lilac waistcoat . "
REGINALD ON CHRISTMAS PRESENTS I wish it to be distinctly understood ( said Reginald ) that I do n't want a " George , Prince of Wales " Prayer - book as a Christmas present .
The fact can not be too widely known .
There ought ( he continued ) to be technical education classes on the science of present - giving .
No one seems to have the faintest notion of what anyone else wants , and the prevalent ideas on the subject are not creditable to a civilised community .
There is , for instance , the female relative in the country who " knows a tie is always useful , " and sends you some spotted horror that you could only wear in secret or in Tottenham Court Road .
It might have been useful had she kept it to tie up currant bushes with , when it would have served the double purpose of supporting the branches and frightening away the birds - for it is an admitted fact that the ordinary tomtit of commerce has a sounder aesthetic taste than the average female relative in the country .
Then there are aunts .
They are always a difficult class to deal with in the matter of presents .
The trouble is that one never catches them really young enough .
By the time one has educated them to an appreciation of the fact that one does not wear red woollen mittens in the West End , they die , or quarrel with the family , or do something equally inconsiderate .
That is why the supply of trained aunts is always so precarious .
There is my Aunt Agatha , par exemple , who sent me a pair of gloves last Christmas , and even got so far as to choose a kind that was being worn and had the correct number of buttons .
But - they were nines !
I sent them to a boy whom I hated intimately : he did n't wear them , of course , but he could have - that was where the bitterness of death came in .
It was nearly as consoling as sending white flowers to his funeral .
Of course I wrote and told my aunt that they were the one thing that had been wanting to make existence blossom like a rose ; I am afraid she thought me frivolous - she comes from the North , where they live in the fear of Heaven and the Earl of Durham .
( Reginald affects an exhaustive knowledge of things political , which furnishes an excellent excuse for not discussing them . )
Aunts with a dash of foreign extraction in them are the most satisfactory in the way of understanding these things ; but if you ca n't choose your aunt , it is wisest in the long - run to choose the present and send her the bill .
Even friends of one 's own set , who might be expected to know better , have curious delusions on the subject .
I am not collecting copies of the cheaper editions of Omar Khayyam .
I gave the last four that I received to the lift - boy , and I like to think of him reading them , with FitzGerald 's notes , to his aged mother .
Lift - boys always have aged mothers ; shows such nice feeling on their part , I think .
Personally , I ca n't see where the difficulty in choosing suitable presents lies .
No boy who had brought himself up properly could fail to appreciate one of those decorative bottles of liqueurs that are so reverently staged in Morel 's window - and it would n't in the least matter if one did get duplicates .
And there would always be the supreme moment of dreadful uncertainty whether it was creme de menthe or Chartreuse - like the expectant thrill on seeing your partner 's hand turned up at bridge .
People may say what they like about the decay of Christianity ; the religious system that produced green Chartreuse can never really die .
And then , of course , there are liqueur glasses , and crystallised fruits , and tapestry curtains , and heaps of other necessaries of life that make really sensible presents - not to speak of luxuries , such as having one 's bills paid , or getting something quite sweet in the way of jewellery .
Unlike the alleged Good Woman of the Bible , I 'm not above rubies .
When found , by the way , she must have been rather a problem at Christmas - time ; nothing short of a blank cheque would have fitted the situation .
Perhaps it 's as well that she 's died out .
The great charm about me ( concluded Reginald ) is that I am so easily pleased .
But I draw the line at a " Prince of Wales " Prayer - book .
REGINALD ON THE ACADEMY " One goes to the Academy in self - defence , " said Reginald .
" It is the one topic one has in common with the Country Cousins . "
" It is almost a religious observance with them , " said the Other .
" A kind of artistic Mecca , and when the good ones die they go " - " To the Chantrey Bequest .
The mystery is what they find to talk about in the country . "
" There are two subjects of conversation in the country : Servants , and Can fowls be made to pay ?
The first , I believe , is compulsory , the second optional . "
" As a function , " resumed Reginald , " the Academy is a failure . "
" You think it would be tolerable without the pictures ? "
" The pictures are all right , in their way ; after all , one can always look at them if one is bored with one 's surroundings , or wants to avoid an imminent acquaintance . "
" Even that does n't always save one .
There is the inevitable female whom you met once in Devonshire , or the Matoppo Hills , or somewhere , who charges up to you with the remark that it 's funny how one always meets people one knows at the Academy .
Personally , I do n't think it funny . "
" I suffered in that way just now , " said Reginald plaintively , " from a woman whose word I had to take that she had met me last summer in Brittany . "
" I hope you were not too brutal ? "
" I merely told her with engaging simplicity that the art of life was the avoidance of the unattainable . "
" Did she try and work it out on the back of her catalogue ? "
" Not there and then .
She murmured something about being ' so clever . '
Fancy coming to the Academy to be clever ! "
" To be clever in the afternoon argues that one is dining nowhere in the evening . "
" Which reminds me that I ca n't remember whether I accepted an invitation from you to dine at Kettner 's to - night . "
" On the other hand , I can remember with startling distinctness not having asked you to . "
" So much certainty is unbecoming in the young ; so we 'll consider that settled .
What were you talking about ?
Oh , pictures .
Personally , I rather like them ; they are so refreshingly real and probable , they take one away from the unrealities of life . "
" One likes to escape from oneself occasionally . "
" That is the disadvantage of a portrait ; as a rule , one 's bitterest friends can find nothing more to ask than the faithful unlikeness that goes down to posterity as oneself .
I hate posterity - it 's so fond of having the last word .
Of course , as regards portraits , there are exceptions . "
" For instance ? "
" To die before being painted by Sargent is to go to heaven prematurely . "
" With the necessary care and impatience , you may avoid that catastrophe . "
" If you 're going to be rude , " said Reginald , " I shall dine with you to - morrow night as well .
The chief vice of the Academy , " he continued , " is its nomenclature .
Why , for instance , should an obvious trout - stream with a palpable rabbit sitting in the foreground be called ' an evening dream of unbeclouded peace , ' or something of that sort ? "
" You think , " said the Other , " that a name should economise description rather than stimulate imagination ? "
" Properly chosen , it should do both .
There is my lady kitten at home , for instance ; I 've called it Derry . "
" Suggests nothing to my imagination but protracted sieges and religious animosities .
Of course , I do n't know your kitten " - " Oh , you 're silly .
It 's a sweet name , and it answers to it - when it wants to .
Then , if there are any unseemly noises in the night , they can be explained succinctly : Derry and Toms . "
" You might almost charge for the advertisement .
But as applied to pictures , do n't you think your system would be too subtle , say , for the Country Cousins ? "
" Every reformation must have its victims .
You ca n't expect the fatted calf to share the enthusiasm of the angels over the prodigal 's return .
Another darling weakness of the Academy is that none of its luminaries must ' arrive ' in a hurry .
You can see them coming for years , like a Balkan trouble or a street improvement , and by the time they have painted a thousand or so square yards of canvas , their work begins to be recognised . "
" Someone who Must Not be Contradicted said that a man must be a success by the time he 's thirty , or never . "
" To have reached thirty , " said Reginald , " is to have failed in life . "
REGINALD AT THE THEATRE " After all , " said the Duchess vaguely , " there are certain things you ca n't get away from .
Right and wrong , good conduct and moral rectitude , have certain well - defined limits . "
" So , for the matter of that , " replied Reginald , " has the Russian Empire .
The trouble is that the limits are not always in the same place . "
Reginald and the Duchess regarded each other with mutual distrust , tempered by a scientific interest .
Reginald considered that the Duchess had much to learn ; in particular , not to hurry out of the Carlton as though afraid of losing one 's last ' bus .
A woman , he said , who is careless of disappearances is capable of leaving town before Goodwood , and dying at the wrong moment of an unfashionable disease .
The Duchess thought that Reginald did not exceed the ethical standard which circumstances demanded .
" Of course , " she resumed combatively , " it 's the prevailing fashion to believe in perpetual change and mutability , and all that sort of thing , and to say we are all merely an improved form of primeval ape - of course you subscribe to that doctrine ? "
" I think it decidedly premature ; in most people I know the process is far from complete . "
" And equally of course you are quite irreligious ? "
" Oh , by no means .
The fashion just now is a Roman Catholic frame of mind with an Agnostic conscience : you get the mediaeval picturesqueness of the one with the modern conveniences of the other . "
The Duchess suppressed a sniff .
She was one of those people who regard the Church of England with patronising affection , as if it were something that had grown up in their kitchen garden .
" But there are other things , " she continued , " which I suppose are to a certain extent sacred even to you .
Patriotism , for instance , and Empire , and Imperial responsibility , and blood - is - thicker - than - water , and all that sort of thing . "
Reginald waited for a couple of minutes before replying , while the Lord of Rimini temporarily monopolised the acoustic possibilities of the theatre .
" That is the worst of a tragedy , " he observed , " one ca n't always hear oneself talk .
Of course I accept the Imperial idea and the responsibility .
After all , I would just as soon think in Continents as anywhere else .
And some day , when the season is over and we have the time , you shall explain to me the exact blood - brotherhood and all that sort of thing that exists between a French Canadian and a mild Hindoo and a Yorkshireman , for instance . "
" Oh , well , ' dominion over palm and pine , ' you know , " quoted the Duchess hopefully ; " of course we must n't forget that we 're all part of the great Anglo - Saxon Empire . "
" Which for its part is rapidly becoming a suburb of Jerusalem .
A very pleasant suburb , I admit , and quite a charming Jerusalem .
But still a suburb . "
" Really , to be told one 's living in a suburb when one is conscious of spreading the benefits of civilisation all over the world !
Philanthropy - I suppose you will say that is a comfortable delusion ; and yet even you must admit that whenever want or misery or starvation is known to exist , however distant or difficult of access , we instantly organise relief on the most generous scale , and distribute it , if need be , to the uttermost ends of the earth . "
The Duchess paused , with a sense of ultimate triumph .
She had made the same observation at a drawing - room meeting , and it had been extremely well received .
" I wonder , " said Reginald , " if you have ever walked down the Embankment on a winter night ? "
" Gracious , no , child !
Why do you ask ? "
" I did n't ; I only wondered .
And even your philanthropy , practised in a world where everything is based on competition , must have a debit as well as a credit account .
The young ravens cry for food . "
" And are fed . "
" Exactly .
Which presupposes that something else is fed upon . "
" Oh , you 're simply exasperating .
You 've been reading Nietzsche till you have n't got any sense of moral proportion left .
May I ask if you are governed by any laws of conduct whatever ? "
" There are certain fixed rules that one observes for one 's own comfort .
For instance , never be flippantly rude to any inoffensive grey - bearded stranger that you may meet in pine forests or hotel smoking - rooms on the Continent .
It always turns out to be the King of Sweden . "
" The restraint must be dreadfully irksome to you .
When I was younger , boys of your age used to be nice and innocent . "
" Now we are only nice .
One must specialise in these days .
Which reminds me of the man I read of in some sacred book who was given a choice of what he most desired .
And because he did n't ask for titles and honours and dignities , but only for immense wealth , these other things came to him also . "
" I am sure you did n't read about him in any sacred book . "
" Yes ; I fancy you will find him in Debrett . "
REGINALD 'S PEACE POEM " I 'm writing a poem on Peace , " said Reginald , emerging from a sweeping operation through a tin of mixed biscuits , in whose depths a macaroon or two might yet be lurking .
" Something of the kind seems to have been attempted already , " said the Other .
" Oh , I know ; but I may never have the chance again .
Besides , I 've got a new fountain pen .
I do n't pretend to have gone on any very original lines ; in writing about Peace the thing is to say what everybody else is saying , only to say it better .
It begins with the usual ornithological emotion - ' When the widgeon westward winging Heard the folk Vereeniginging , Heard the shouting and the singing ' " - " Vereeniginging is good , but why widgeon ? "
" Why not ?
Anything that winged westward would naturally begin with a w . " " Need it wing westward ? "
" The bird must go somewhere .
You would n't have it hang around and look foolish .
Then I 've brought in something about the heedless hartebeest galloping over the deserted veldt . "
" Of course you know it 's practically extinct in those regions ? "
" I ca n't help that , it gallops so nicely .
I make it have all sorts of unexpected yearnings - ' Mother , may I go and maffick , Tear around and hinder traffic ? '
Of course you 'll say there would be no traffic worth bothering about on the bare and sun - scorched veldt , but there 's no other word that rhymes with maffick . "
" Seraphic ? "
Reginald considered .
" It might do , but I 've got a lot about angels later on .
You must have angels in a Peace poem ; I know dreadfully little about their habits . "
" They can do unexpected things , like the hartebeest . "
" Of course .
Then I turn on London , the City of Dreadful Nocturnes , resonant with hymns of joy and thanksgiving - ' And the sleeper , eye unlidding , Heard a voice for ever bidding Much farewell to Dolly Gray ; Turning weary on his truckle - Bed he heard the honey - suckle Lauded in apiarian lay . '
Longfellow at his best wrote nothing like that . "
" I agree with you . "
" I wish you would n't .
I 've a sweet temper , but I ca n't stand being agreed with .
And I 'm so worried about the aasvogel . "
Reginald stared dismally at the biscuit - tin , which now presented an unattractive array of rejected cracknels .
" I believe , " he murmured , " if I could find a woman with an unsatisfied craving for cracknels , I should marry her . "
" What is the tragedy of the aasvogel ? "
asked the Other sympathetically .
" Oh , simply that there 's no rhyme for it .
I thought about it all the time I was dressing - it 's dreadfully bad for one to think whilst one 's dressing - and all lunch - time , and I 'm still hung up over it .
I feel like those unfortunate automobilists who achieve an unenviable motoriety by coming to a hopeless stop with their cars in the most crowded thoroughfares .
I 'm afraid I shall have to drop the aasvogel , and it did give such lovely local colour to the thing . "
" Still you 've got the heedless hartebeest . "
" And quite a decorative bit of moral admonition - when you 've worried the meaning out - ' Cease , War , thy bubbling madness that the wine shares , And bid thy legions turn their swords to mine shares . '
Mine shares seems to fit the case better than ploughshares .
There 's lots more about the blessings of Peace , shall I go on reading it ? "
" If I must make a choice , I think I would rather they went on with the war . "
REGINALD 'S CHOIR TREAT " Never , " wrote Reginald to his most darling friend , " be a pioneer .
It 's the Early Christian that gets the fattest lion . "
Reginald , in his way , was a pioneer .
None of the rest of his family had anything approaching Titian hair or a sense of humour , and they used primroses as a table decoration .
It follows that they never understood Reginald , who came down late to breakfast , and nibbled toast , and said disrespectful things about the universe .
The family ate porridge , and believed in everything , even the weather forecast .
Therefore the family was relieved when the vicar 's daughter undertook the reformation of Reginald .
Her name was Amabel ; it was the vicar 's one extravagance .
Amabel was accounted a beauty and intellectually gifted ; she never played tennis , and was reputed to have read Maeterlinck 's Life of the Bee .
If you abstain from tennis and read Maeterlinck in a small country village , you are of necessity intellectual .
Also she had been twice to Fecamp to pick up a good French accent from the Americans staying there ; consequently she had a knowledge of the world which might be considered useful in dealings with a worldling .
Hence the congratulations in the family when Amabel undertook the reformation of its wayward member .
Amabel commenced operations by asking her unsuspecting pupil to tea in the vicarage garden ; she believed in the healthy influence of natural surroundings , never having been in Sicily , where things are different .
And like every woman who has ever preached repentance to unregenerate youth , she dwelt on the sin of an empty life , which always seems so much more scandalous in the country , where people rise early to see if a new strawberry has happened during the night .
Reginald recalled the lilies of the field , " which simply sat and looked beautiful , and defied competition . "
" But that is not an example for us to follow , " gasped Amabel .
" Unfortunately , we ca n't afford to .
You do n't know what a world of trouble I take in trying to rival the lilies in their artistic simplicity . "
" You are really indecently vain of your appearance .
A good life is infinitely preferable to good looks . "
" You agree with me that the two are incompatible .
I always say beauty is only sin deep . "
Amabel began to realise that the battle is not always to the strong - minded .
With the immemorial resource of her sex , she abandoned the frontal attack , and laid stress on her unassisted labours in parish work , her mental loneliness , her discouragements - and at the right moment she produced strawberries and cream .
Reginald was obviously affected by the latter , and when his preceptress suggested that he might begin the strenuous life by helping her to supervise the annual outing of the bucolic infants who composed the local choir , his eyes shone with the dangerous enthusiasm of a convert .
Reginald entered on the strenuous life alone , as far as Amabel was concerned .
The most virtuous women are not proof against damp grass , and Amabel kept her bed with a cold .
Reginald called it a dispensation ; it had been the dream of his life to stage - manage a choir outing .
With strategic insight , he led his shy , bullet - headed charges to the nearest woodland stream and allowed them to bathe ; then he seated himself on their discarded garments and discoursed on their immediate future , which , he decreed , was to embrace a Bacchanalian procession through the village .
Forethought had provided the occasion with a supply of tin whistles , but the introduction of a he - goat from a neighbouring orchard was a brilliant afterthought .
Properly , Reginald explained , there should have been an outfit of panther skins ; as it was , those who had spotted handkerchiefs were allowed to wear them , which they did with thankfulness .
Reginald recognised the impossibility , in the time at his disposal , of teaching his shivering neophytes a chant in honour of Bacchus , so he started them off with a more familiar , if less appropriate , temperance hymn .
After all , he said , it is the spirit of the thing that counts .
Following the etiquette of dramatic authors on first nights , he remained discreetly in the background while the procession , with extreme diffidence and the goat , wound its way lugubriously towards the village .
The singing had died down long before the main street was reached , but the miserable wailing of pipes brought the inhabitants to their doors .
Reginald said he had seen something like it in pictures ; the villagers had seen nothing like it in their lives , and remarked as much freely .
Reginald 's family never forgave him .
They had no sense of humour .
REGINALD ON WORRIES I have ( said Reginald ) an aunt who worries .
She 's not really an aunt - a sort of amateur one , and they are n't really worries .
She is a social success , and has no domestic tragedies worth speaking of , so she adopts any decorative sorrows that are going , myself included .
In that way she 's the antithesis , or whatever you call it , to those sweet , uncomplaining women one knows who have seen trouble , and worn blinkers ever since .
Of course , one just loves them for it , but I must confess they make me uncomfy ; they remind one so of a duck that goes flapping about with forced cheerfulness long after its head 's been cut off .
Ducks have no repose .
Now , my aunt has a shade of hair that suits her , and a cook who quarrels with the other servants , which is always a hopeful sign , and a conscience that 's absentee for about eleven months of the year , and only turns up at Lent to annoy her husband 's people , who are considerably Lower than the angels , so to speak : with all these natural advantages - she says her particular tint of bronze is a natural advantage , and there can be no two opinions as to the advantage - of course she has to send out for her afflictions , like those restaurants where they have n't got a licence .
The system has this advantage , that you can fit your unhappinesses in with your other engagements , whereas real worries have a way of arriving at meal - times , and when you 're dressing , or other solemn moments .
I knew a canary once that had been trying for months and years to hatch out a family , and everyone looked upon it as a blameless infatuation , like the sale of Delagoa Bay , which would be an annual loss to the Press agencies if it ever came to pass ; and one day the bird really did bring it off , in the middle of family prayers .
I say the middle , but it was also the end : you ca n't go on being thankful for daily bread when you are wondering what on earth very new canaries expect to be fed on .
At present she 's rather in a Balkan state of mind about the treatment of the Jews in Roumania .
Personally , I think the Jews have estimable qualities ; they 're so kind to their poor - and to our rich .
I daresay in Roumania the cost of living beyond one 's income is n't so great .
Over here the trouble is that so many people who have money to throw about seem to have such vague ideas where to throw it .
That fund , for instance , to relieve the victims of sudden disasters - what is a sudden disaster ?
There 's Marion Mulciber , who would think she could play bridge , just as she would think she could ride down a hill on a bicycle ; on that occasion she went to a hospital , now she 's gone into a Sisterhood - lost all she had , you know , and gave the rest to Heaven .
Still , you ca n't call it a sudden calamity ; that occurred when poor dear Marion was born .
The doctors said at the time that she could n't live more than a fortnight , and she 's been trying ever since to see if she could .
Women are so opinionated .
And then there 's the Education Question - not that I can see that there 's anything to worry about in that direction .
To my mind , education is an absurdly over - rated affair .
At least , one never took it very seriously at school , where everything was done to bring it prominently under one 's notice .
Anything that is worth knowing one practically teaches oneself , and the rest obtrudes itself sooner or later .
The reason one 's elders know so comparatively little is because they have to unlearn so much that they acquired by way of education before we were born .
Of course I 'm a believer in Nature - study ; as I said to Lady Beauwhistle , if you want a lesson in elaborate artificiality , just watch the studied unconcern of a Persian cat entering a crowded salon , and then go and practise it for a fortnight .
The Beauwhistles were n't born in the Purple , you know , but they 're getting there on the instalment system - so much down , and the rest when you feel like it .
They have kind hearts , and they never forget birthdays .
I forget what he was , something in the City , where the patriotism comes from ; and she - oh , well , her frocks are built in Paris , but she wears them with a strong English accent .
So public - spirited of her .
I think she must have been very strictly brought up , she 's so desperately anxious to do the wrong thing correctly .
Not that it really matters nowadays , as I told her : I know some perfectly virtuous people who are received everywhere .
REGINALD ON HOUSE - PARTIES The drawback is , one never really knows one 's hosts and hostesses .
One gets to know their fox - terriers and their chrysanthemums , and whether the story about the go - cart can be turned loose in the drawing - room , or must be told privately to each member of the party , for fear of shocking public opinion ; but one 's host and hostess are a sort of human hinterland that one never has the time to explore .
There was a fellow I stayed with once in Warwickshire who farmed his own land , but was otherwise quite steady .
Should never have suspected him of having a soul , yet not very long afterwards he eloped with a lion - tamer 's widow and set up as a golf - instructor somewhere on the Persian Gulf ; dreadfully immoral , of course , because he was only an indifferent player , but still , it showed imagination .
His wife was really to be pitied , because he had been the only person in the house who understood how to manage the cook 's temper , and now she has to put " D.V. "
on her dinner invitations .
Still , that 's better than a domestic scandal ; a woman who leaves her cook never wholly recovers her position in Society .
I suppose the same thing holds good with the hosts ; they seldom have more than a superficial acquaintance with their guests , and so often just when they do get to know you a bit better , they leave off knowing you altogether .
There was rather a breath of winter in the air when I left those Dorsetshire people .
You see , they had asked me down to shoot , and I 'm not particularly immense at that sort of thing .
There 's such a deadly sameness about partridges ; when you 've missed one , you 've missed the lot - at least , that 's been my experience .
And they tried to rag me in the smoking - room about not being able to hit a bird at five yards , a sort of bovine ragging that suggested cows buzzing round a gadfly and thinking they were teasing it .
So I got up the next morning at early dawn - I know it was dawn , because there were lark - noises in the sky , and the grass looked as if it had been left out all night - and hunted up the most conspicuous thing in the bird line that I could find , and measured the distance , as nearly as it would let me , and shot away all I knew .
They said afterwards that it was a tame bird ; that 's simply silly , because it was awfully wild at the first few shots .
Afterwards it quieted down a bit , and when its legs had stopped waving farewells to the landscape I got a gardener - boy to drag it into the hall , where everybody must see it on their way to the breakfast - room .
I breakfasted upstairs myself .
I gathered afterwards that the meal was tinged with a very unchristian spirit .
I suppose it 's unlucky to bring peacock 's feathers into a house ; anyway , there was a blue - pencilly look in my hostess 's eye when I took my departure .
Some hostesses , of course , will forgive anything , even unto pavonicide ( is there such a word ?
) , as long as one is nice - looking and sufficiently unusual to counterbalance some of the others ; and there are others - the girl , for instance , who reads Meredith , and appears at meals with unnatural punctuality in a frock that 's made at home and repented at leisure .
She eventually finds her way to India and gets married , and comes home to admire the Royal Academy , and to imagine that an indifferent prawn curry is for ever an effective substitute for all that we have been taught to believe is luncheon .
It 's then that she is really dangerous ; but at her worst she is never quite so bad as the woman who fires Exchange and Mart questions at you without the least provocation .
Imagine the other day , just when I was doing my best to understand half the things I was saying , being asked by one of those seekers after country home truths how many fowls she could keep in a run ten feet by six , or whatever it was !
I told her whole crowds , as long as she kept the door shut , and the idea did n't seem to have struck her before ; at least , she brooded over it for the rest of dinner .
Of course , as I say , one never really knows one 's ground , and one may make mistakes occasionally .
But then one 's mistakes sometimes turn out assets in the long - run : if we had never bungled away our American colonies we might never have had the boy from the States to teach us how to wear our hair and cut our clothes , and we must get our ideas from somewhere , I suppose .
Even the Hooligan was probably invented in China centuries before we thought of him .
England must wake up , as the Duke of Devonshire said the other day ; was n't it ?
Oh , well , it was someone else .
Not that I ever indulge in despair about the Future ; there always have been men who have gone about despairing of the Future , and when the Future arrives it says nice , superior things about their having acted according to their lights .
It is dreadful to think that other people 's grandchildren may one day rise up and call one amiable .
There are moments when one sympathises with Herod .
REGINALD AT THE CARLTON " A most variable climate , " said the Duchess ; " and how unfortunate that we should have had that very cold weather at a time when coal was so dear !
So distressing for the poor . "
" Someone has observed that Providence is always on the side of the big dividends , " remarked Reginald .
The Duchess ate an anchovy in a shocked manner ; she was sufficiently old - fashioned to dislike irreverence towards dividends .
Reginald had left the selection of a feeding - ground to her womanly intuition , but he chose the wine himself , knowing that womanly intuition stops short at claret .
A woman will cheerfully choose husbands for her less attractive friends , or take sides in a political controversy without the least knowledge of the issues involved - but no woman ever cheerfully chose a claret .
" Hors d'oeuvres have always a pathetic interest for me , " said Reginald : " they remind me of one 's childhood that one goes through , wondering what the next course is going to be like - and during the rest of the menu one wishes one had eaten more of the hors d'oeuvres .
Do n't you love watching the different ways people have of entering a restaurant ?
There is the woman who races in as though her whole scheme of life were held together by a one - pin despotism which might abdicate its functions at any moment ; it 's really a relief to see her reach her chair in safety .
Then there are the people who troop in with an - unpleasant - duty - to - perform air , as if they were angels of Death entering a plague city .
You see that type of Briton very much in hotels abroad .
And nowadays there are always the Johannesbourgeois , who bring a Cape - to - Cairo atmosphere with them - what may be called the Rand Manner , I suppose . "
" Talking about hotels abroad , " said the Duchess , " I am preparing notes for a lecture at the Club on the educational effects of modern travel , dealing chiefly with the moral side of the question .
I was talking to Lady Beauwhistle 's aunt the other day - she 's just come back from Paris , you know .
Such a sweet woman " - " And so silly .
In these days of the over - education of women she 's quite refreshing .
They say some people went through the siege of Paris without knowing that France and Germany were at war ; but the Beauwhistle aunt is credited with having passed the whole winter in Paris under the impression that the Humberts were a kind of bicycle ...
Is n't there a bishop or somebody who believes we shall meet all the animals we have known on earth in another world ?
How frightfully embarrassing to meet a whole shoal of whitebait you had last known at Prince 's !
I 'm sure in my nervousness I should talk of nothing but lemons .
Still , I daresay they would be quite as offended if one had n't eaten them .
I know if I were served up at a cannibal feast I should be dreadfully annoyed if anyone found fault with me for not being tender enough , or having been kept too long . "
" My idea about the lecture , " resumed the Duchess hurriedly , " is to inquire whether promiscuous Continental travel does n't tend to weaken the moral fibre of the social conscience .
There are people one knows , quite nice people when they are in England , who are so different when they are anywhere the other side of the Channel . "
" The people with what I call Tauchnitz morals , " observed Reginald .
" On the whole , I think they get the best of two very desirable worlds .
And , after all , they charge so much for excess luggage on some of those foreign lines that it 's really an economy to leave one 's reputation behind one occasionally . "
" A scandal , my dear Reginald , is as much to be avoided at Monaco or any of those places as at Exeter , let us say . "
" Scandal , my dear Irene - I may call you Irene , may n't I ? "
" I do n't know that you have known me long enough for that . "
" I 've known you longer than your god - parents had when they took the liberty of calling you that name .
Scandal is merely the compassionate allowance which the gay make to the humdrum .
Think how many blameless lives are brightened by the blazing indiscretions of other people .
Tell me , who is the woman with the old lace at the table on our left ?
Oh , that does n't matter ; it 's quite the thing nowadays to stare at people as if they were yearlings at Tattersall 's . "
" Mrs. Spelvexit ?
Quite a charming woman ; separated from her husband " - " Incompatibility of income ? "
" Oh , nothing of that sort .
By miles of frozen ocean , I was going to say .
He explores ice - floes and studies the movements of herrings , and has written a most interesting book on the home - life of the Esquimaux ; but naturally he has very little home - life of his own . "
" A husband who comes home with the Gulf Stream would be rather a tied - up asset . "
" His wife is exceedingly sensible about it .
She collects postage - stamps .
Such a resource .
Those people with her are the Whimples , very old acquaintances of mine ; they 're always having trouble , poor things . "
" Trouble is not one of those fancies you can take up and drop at any moment ; it 's like a grouse - moor or the opium - habit - once you start it you 've got to keep it up . "
" Their eldest son was such a disappointment to them ; they wanted him to be a linguist , and spent no end of money on having him taught to speak - oh , dozens of languages !
- and then he became a Trappist monk .
And the youngest , who was intended for the American marriage market , has developed political tendencies , and writes pamphlets about the housing of the poor .
Of course it 's a most important question , and I devote a good deal of time to it myself in the mornings ; but , as Laura Whimple says , it 's as well to have an establishment of one 's own before agitating about other people 's .
She feels it very keenly , but she always maintains a cheerful appetite , which I think is so unselfish of her . "
" There are different ways of taking disappointment .
There was a girl I knew who nursed a wealthy uncle through a long illness , borne by her with Christian fortitude , and then he died and left his money to a swine - fever hospital .
She found she 'd about cleared stock in fortitude by that time , and now she gives drawing - room recitations .
That 's what I call being vindictive . "
" Life is full of its disappointments , " observed the Duchess , " and I suppose the art of being happy is to disguise them as illusions .
But that , my dear Reginald , becomes more difficult as one grows older . "
" I think it 's more generally practised than you imagine .
The young have aspirations that never come to pass , the old have reminiscences of what never happened .
It 's only the middle - aged who are really conscious of their limitations - that is why one should be so patient with them .
But one never is . "
" After all , " said the Duchess , " the disillusions of life may depend on our way of assessing it .
In the minds of those who come after us we may be remembered for qualities and successes which we quite left out of the reckoning . "
" It 's not always safe to depend on the commemorative tendencies of those who come after us .
There may have been disillusionments in the lives of the mediaeval saints , but they would scarcely have been better pleased if they could have foreseen that their names would be associated nowadays chiefly with racehorses and the cheaper clarets .
And now , if you can tear yourself away from the salted almonds , we 'll go and have coffee under the palms that are so necessary for our discomfort . "
REGINALD ON BESETTING SINS : THE WOMAN WHO TOLD THE TRUTH There was once ( said Reginald ) a woman who told the truth .
Not all at once , of course , but the habit grew upon her gradually , like lichen on an apparently healthy tree .
She had no children - otherwise it might have been different .
It began with little things , for no particular reason except that her life was a rather empty one , and it is so easy to slip into the habit of telling the truth in little matters .
And then it became difficult to draw the line at more important things , until at last she took to telling the truth about her age ; she said she was forty - two and five months - by that time , you see , she was veracious even to months .
It may have been pleasing to the angels , but her elder sister was not gratified .
On the Woman 's birthday , instead of the opera - tickets which she had hoped for , her sister gave her a view of Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives , which is not quite the same thing .
The revenge of an elder sister may be long in coming , but , like a South - Eastern express , it arrives in its own good time .
The friends of the Woman tried to dissuade her from over - indulgence in the practice , but she said she was wedded to the truth ; whereupon it was remarked that it was scarcely logical to be so much together in public .
( No really provident woman lunches regularly with her husband if she wishes to burst upon him as a revelation at dinner .
He must have time to forget ; an afternoon is not enough . )
And after a while her friends began to thin out in patches .
Her passion for the truth was not compatible with a large visiting - list .
For instance , she told Miriam Klopstock exactly how she looked at the Ilexes ' ball .
Certainly Miriam had asked for her candid opinion , but the Woman prayed in church every Sunday for peace in our time , and it was not consistent .
It was unfortunate , everyone agreed , that she had no family ; with a child or two in the house , there is an unconscious check upon too free an indulgence in the truth .
Children are given us to discourage our better emotions .
That is why the stage , with all its efforts , can never be as artificial as life ; even in an Ibsen drama one must reveal to the audience things that one would suppress before the children or servants .
Fate may have ordained the truth - telling from the commencement and should justly bear some of the blame ; but in having no children the Woman was guilty , at least , of contributory negligence .
Little by little she felt she was becoming a slave to what had once been merely an idle propensity ; and one day she knew .
Every woman tells ninety per cent .
of the truth to her dressmaker ; the other ten per cent .
is the irreducible minimum of deception beyond which no self - respecting client trespasses .
Madame Draga 's establishment was a meeting - ground for naked truths and over - dressed fictions , and it was here , the Woman felt , that she might make a final effort to recall the artless mendacity of past days .
Madame herself was in an inspiring mood , with the air of a sphinx who knew all things and preferred to forget most of them .
As a War Minister she might have been celebrated , but she was content to be merely rich .
" If I take it in here , and - Miss Howard , one moment , if you please - and there , and round like this - so - I really think you will find it quite easy . "
The Woman hesitated ; it seemed to require such a small effort to simply acquiesce in Madame 's views .
But habit had become too strong .
" I 'm afraid , " she faltered , " it 's just the least little bit in the world too " - And by that least little bit she measured the deeps and eternities of her thraldom to fact .
Madame was not best pleased at being contradicted on a professional matter , and when Madame lost her temper you usually found it afterwards in the bill .
And at last the dreadful thing came , as the Woman had foreseen all along that it must ; it was one of those paltry little truths with which she harried her waking hours .
On a raw Wednesday morning , in a few ill - chosen words , she told the cook that she drank .
She remembered the scene afterwards as vividly as though it had been painted in her mind by Abbey .
The cook was a good cook , as cooks go ; and as cooks go she went .
Miriam Klopstock came to lunch the next day .
Women and elephants never forget an injury .
REGINALD 'S DRAMA Reginald closed his eyes with the elaborate weariness of one who has rather nice eyelashes and thinks it useless to conceal the fact .
" One of these days , " he said , " I shall write a really great drama .
No one will understand the drift of it , but everyone will go back to their homes with a vague feeling of dissatisfaction with their lives and surroundings .
Then they will put up new wall - papers and forget . "
" But how about those that have oak panelling all over the house ? "
said the Other .
" They can always put down new stair - carpets , " pursued Reginald , " and , anyhow , I 'm not responsible for the audience having a happy ending .
The play would be quite sufficient strain on one 's energies .
I should get a bishop to say it was immoral and beautiful - no dramatist has thought of that before , and everyone would come to condemn the bishop , and they would stay on out of sheer nervousness .
After all , it requires a great deal of moral courage to leave in a marked manner in the middle of the second act , when your carriage is n't ordered till twelve .
And it would commence with wolves worrying something on a lonely waste - you would n't see them , of course ; but you would hear them snarling and scrunching , and I should arrange to have a wolfy fragrance suggested across the footlights .
It would look so well on the programmes , ' Wolves in the first act , by Jamrach . '
And old Lady Whortleberry , who never misses a first night , would scream .
She 's always been nervous since she lost her first husband .
He died quite abruptly while watching a county cricket match ; two and a half inches of rain had fallen for seven runs , and it was supposed that the excitement killed him .
Anyhow , it gave her quite a shock ; it was the first husband she 'd lost , you know , and now she always screams if anything thrilling happens too soon after dinner .
And after the audience had heard the Whortleberry scream the thing would be fairly launched . "
" And the plot ? "
" The plot , " said Reginald , " would be one of those little everyday tragedies that one sees going on all round one .
In my mind 's eye there is the case of the Mudge - Jervises , which in an unpretentious way has quite an Enoch Arden intensity underlying it .
They 'd only been married some eighteen months or so , and circumstances had prevented their seeing much of each other .
With him there was always a foursome or something that had to be played and replayed in different parts of the country , and she went in for slumming quite as seriously as if it was a sport .
With her , I suppose , it was .
She belonged to the Guild of the Poor Dear Souls , and they hold the record for having nearly reformed a washerwoman .
No one has ever really reformed a washerwoman , and that is why the competition is so keen .
You can rescue charwomen by fifties with a little tea and personal magnetism , but with washerwomen it 's different ; wages are too high .
This particular laundress , who came from Bermondsey or some such place , was really rather a hopeful venture , and they thought at last that she might be safely put in the window as a specimen of successful work .
So they had her paraded at a drawing - room " At Home " at Agatha Camelford 's ; it was sheer bad luck that some liqueur chocolates had been turned loose by mistake among the refreshments - really liqueur chocolates , with very little chocolate .
And of course the old soul found them out , and cornered the entire stock .
It was like finding a whelk - stall in a desert , as she afterwards partially expressed herself .
When the liqueurs began to take effect , she started to give them imitations of farmyard animals as they know them in Bermondsey .
She began with a dancing bear , and you know Agatha does n't approve of dancing , except at Buckingham Palace under proper supervision .
And then she got up on the piano and gave them an organ monkey ; I gather she went in for realism rather than a Maeterlinckian treatment of the subject .
Finally , she fell into the piano and said she was a parrot in a cage , and for an impromptu performance I believe she was very word - perfect ; no one had heard anything like it , except Baroness Boobelstein who has attended sittings of the Austrian Reichsrath .
Agatha is trying the Rest - cure at Buxton . "
" But the tragedy ? "
" Oh , the Mudge - Jervises .
Well , they were getting along quite happily , and their married life was one continuous exchange of picture - postcards ; and then one day they were thrown together on some neutral ground where foursomes and washerwomen overlapped , and discovered that they were hopelessly divided on the Fiscal Question .
They have thought it best to separate , and she is to have the custody of the Persian kittens for nine months in the year - they go back to him for the winter , when she is abroad .
There you have the material for a tragedy drawn straight from life - and the piece could be called ' The Price They Paid for Empire . '
And of course one would have to work in studies of the struggle of hereditary tendency against environment and all that sort of thing .
The woman 's father could have been an Envoy to some of the smaller German Courts ; that 's where she 'd get her passion for visiting the poor , in spite of the most careful upbringing .
C'est le premier pa qui compte , as the cuckoo said when it swallowed its foster - parent .
That , I think , is quite clever . "
" And the wolves ? "
" Oh , the wolves would be a sort of elusive undercurrent in the background that would never be satisfactorily explained .
After all , life teems with things that have no earthly reason .
And whenever the characters could think of nothing brilliant to say about marriage or the War Office , they could open a window and listen to the howling of the wolves .
But that would be very seldom . "
REGINALD ON TARIFFS I 'm not going to discuss the Fiscal Question ( said Reginald ) ; I wish to be original .
At the same time , I think one suffers more than one realises from the system of free imports .
I should like , for instance , a really prohibitive duty put upon the partner who declares on a weak red suit and hopes for the best .
Even a free outlet for compressed verbiage does n't balance matters .
And I think there should be a sort of bounty - fed export ( is that the right expression ? )
of the people who impress on you that you ought to take life seriously .
There are only two classes that really ca n't help taking life seriously - schoolgirls of thirteen and Hohenzollerns ; they might be exempt .
Albanians come under another heading ; they take life whenever they get the opportunity .
The one Albanian that I was ever on speaking terms with was rather a decadent example .
He was a Christian and a grocer , and I do n't fancy he had ever killed anybody .
I did n't like to question him on the subject - that showed my delicacy .
Mrs. Nicorax says I have no delicacy ; she has n't forgiven me about the mice .
You see , when I was staying down there , a mouse used to cake - walk about my room half the night , and none of their silly patent traps seemed to take its fancy as a bijou residence , so I determined to appeal to the better side of it - which with mice is the inside .
So I called it Percy , and put little delicacies down near its hole every night , and that kept it quiet while I read Max Nordau 's Degeneration and other reproving literature , and went to sleep .
And now she says there is a whole colony of mice in that room .
That is n't where the indelicacy comes in .
She went out riding with me , which was entirely her own suggestion , and as we were coming home through some meadows she made a quite unnecessary attempt to see if her pony would jump a rather messy sort of brook that was there .
It would n't .
It went with her as far as the water 's edge , and from that point Mrs. Nicorax went on alone .
Of course I had to fish her out from the bank , and my riding - breeches are not cut with a view to salmon - fishing - it 's rather an art even to ride in them .
Her habit - skirt was one of those open questions that need not be adhered to in emergencies , and on this occasion it remained behind in some water - weeds .
She wanted me to fish about for that too , but I felt I had done enough Pharaoh 's daughter business for an October afternoon , and I was beginning to want my tea .
So I bundled her up on to her pony , and gave her a lead towards home as fast as I cared to go .
What with the wet and the unusual responsibility , her abridged costume did not stand the pace particularly well , and she got quite querulous when I shouted back that I had no pins with me - and no string .
Some women expect so much from a fellow .
When we got into the drive she wanted to go up the back way to the stables , but the ponies know they always get sugar at the front door , and I never attempt to hold a pulling pony ; as for Mrs. Nicorax , it took her all she knew to keep a firm hand on her seceding garments , which , as her maid remarked afterwards , were more tout than ensemble .
Of course nearly the whole house - party were out on the lawn watching the sunset - the only day this month that it 's occurred to the sun to show itself , as Mrs. Nic .
viciously observed - and I shall never forget the expression on her husband 's face as we pulled up .
" My darling , this is too much ! "
was his first spoken comment ; taking into consideration the state of her toilet , it was the most brilliant thing I had ever heard him say , and I went into the library to be alone and scream .
Mrs. Nicorax says I have no delicacy .
Talking about tariffs , the lift - boy , who reads extensively between the landings , says it wo n't do to tax raw commodities .
What , exactly , is a raw commodity ?
Mrs. Van Challaby says men are raw commodities till you marry them ; after they 've struck Mrs. Van C. , I can fancy they pretty soon become a finished article .
Certainly she 's had a good deal of experience to support her opinion .
She lost one husband in a railway accident , and mislaid another in the Divorce Court , and the current one has just got himself squeezed in a Beef Trust .
" What was he doing in a Beef Trust , anyway ? "
she asked tearfully , and I suggested that perhaps he had an unhappy home .
I only said it for the sake of making conversation ; which it did .
Mrs. Van Challaby said things about me which in her calmer moments she would have hesitated to spell .
It 's a pity people ca n't discuss fiscal matters without getting wild .
However , she wrote next day to ask if I could get her a Yorkshire terrier of the size and shade that 's being worn now , and that 's as near as a woman can be expected to get to owning herself in the wrong .
And she will tie a salmon - pink bow to its collar , and call it " Reggie , " and take it with her everywhere - like poor Miriam Klopstock , who would take her Chow with her to the bathroom , and while she was bathing it was playing at she - bears with her garments .
Miriam is always late for breakfast , and she was n't really missed till the middle of lunch .
However , I 'm not going any further into the Fiscal Question .
Only I should like to be protected from the partner with a weak red tendency .
REGINALD 'S CHRISTMAS REVEL They say ( said Reginald ) that there 's nothing sadder than victory except defeat .
If you 've ever stayed with dull people during what is alleged to be the festive season , you can probably revise that saying .
I shall never forget putting in a Christmas at the Babwolds ' .
Mrs. Babwold is some relation of my father 's - a sort of to - be - left - till - called - for cousin - and that was considered sufficient reason for my having to accept her invitation at about the sixth time of asking ; though why the sins of the father should be visited by the children - you wo n't find any notepaper in that drawer ; that 's where I keep old menus and first - night programmes .
Mrs. Babwold wears a rather solemn personality , and has never been known to smile , even when saying disagreeable things to her friends or making out the Stores list .
She takes her pleasures sadly .
A state elephant at a Durbar gives one a very similar impression .
Her husband gardens in all weathers .
When a man goes out in the pouring rain to brush caterpillars off rose - trees , I generally imagine his life indoors leaves something to be desired ; anyway , it must be very unsettling for the caterpillars .
Of course there were other people there .
There was a Major Somebody who had shot things in Lapland , or somewhere of that sort ; I forget what they were , but it was n't for want of reminding .
We had them cold with every meal almost , and he was continually giving us details of what they measured from tip to tip , as though he thought we were going to make them warm under - things for the winter .
I used to listen to him with a rapt attention that I thought rather suited me , and then one day I quite modestly gave the dimensions of an okapi I had shot in the Lincolnshire fens .
The Major turned a beautiful Tyrian scarlet ( I remember thinking at the time that I should like my bathroom hung in that colour ) , and I think that at that moment he almost found it in his heart to dislike me .
Mrs. Babwold put on a first - aid - to - the - injured expression , and asked him why he did n't publish a book of his sporting reminiscences ; it would be so interesting .
She did n't remember till afterwards that he had given her two fat volumes on the subject , with his portrait and autograph as a frontispiece and an appendix on the habits of the Arctic mussel .
It was in the evening that we cast aside the cares and distractions of the day and really lived .
Cards were thought to be too frivolous and empty a way of passing the time , so most of them played what they called a book game .
You went out into the hall - to get an inspiration , I suppose - then you came in again with a muffler tied round your neck and looked silly , and the others were supposed to guess that you were " Wee MacGreegor . "
I held out against the inanity as long as I decently could , but at last , in a lapse of good - nature , I consented to masquerade as a book , only I warned them that it would take some time to carry out .
They waited for the best part of forty minutes , while I went and played wineglass skittles with the page - boy in the pantry ; you play it with a champagne cork , you know , and the one who knocks down the most glasses without breaking them wins .
I won , with four unbroken out of seven ; I think William suffered from over - anxiousness .
They were rather mad in the drawing - room at my not having come back , and they were n't a bit pacified when I told them afterwards that I was " At the end of the passage . "
" I never did like Kipling , " was Mrs. Babwold 's comment , when the situation dawned upon her .
" I could n't see anything clever in Earthworms out of Tuscany - or is that by Darwin ? "
Of course these games are very educational , but , personally , I prefer bridge .
On Christmas evening we were supposed to be specially festive in the Old English fashion .
The hall was horribly draughty , but it seemed to be the proper place to revel in , and it was decorated with Japanese fans and Chinese lanterns , which gave it a very Old English effect .
A young lady with a confidential voice favoured us with a long recitation about a little girl who died or did something equally hackneyed , and then the Major gave us a graphic account of a struggle he had with a wounded bear .
I privately wished that the bears would win sometimes on these occasions ; at least they would n't go vapouring about it afterwards .
Before we had time to recover our spirits , we were indulged with some thought - reading by a young man whom one knew instinctively had a good mother and an indifferent tailor - the sort of young man who talks unflaggingly through the thickest soup , and smooths his hair dubiously as though he thought it might hit back .
The thought - reading was rather a success ; he announced that the hostess was thinking about poetry , and she admitted that her mind was dwelling on one of Austin 's odes .
Which was near enough .
I fancy she had been really wondering whether a scrag - end of mutton and some cold plum - pudding would do for the kitchen dinner next day .
As a crowning dissipation , they all sat down to play progressive halma , with milk - chocolate for prizes .
I 've been carefully brought up , and I do n't like to play games of skill for milk - chocolate , so I invented a headache and retired from the scene .
I had been preceded a few minutes earlier by Miss Langshan - Smith , a rather formidable lady , who always got up at some uncomfortable hour in the morning , and gave you the impression that she had been in communication with most of the European Governments before breakfast .
There was a paper pinned on her door with a signed request that she might be called particularly early on the morrow .
Such an opportunity does not come twice in a lifetime .
I covered up everything except the signature with another notice , to the effect that before these words should meet the eye she would have ended a misspent life , was sorry for the trouble she was giving , and would like a military funeral .
A few minutes later I violently exploded an air - filled paper bag on the landing , and gave a stage moan that could have been heard in the cellars .
Then I pursued my original intention and went to bed .
The noise those people made in forcing open the good lady 's door was positively indecorous ; she resisted gallantly , but I believe they searched her for bullets for about a quarter of an hour , as if she had been an historic battlefield .
I hate travelling on Boxing Day , but one must occasionally do things that one dislikes .
REGINALD 'S RUBAIYAT The other day ( confided Reginald ) , when I was killing time in the bathroom and making bad resolutions for the New Year , it occurred to me that I would like to be a poet .
The chief qualification , I understand , is that you must be born .
Well , I hunted up my birth certificate , and found that I was all right on that score , and then I got to work on a Hymn to the New Year , which struck me as having possibilities .
It suggested extremely unusual things to absolutely unlikely people , which I believe is the art of first - class catering in any department .
Quite the best verse in it went something like this - " Have you heard the groan of a gravelled grouse , Or the snarl of a snaffled snail ( Husband or mother , like me , or spouse ) , Have you lain a - creep in the darkened house Where the wounded wombats wail ? "
It was quite improbable that anyone had , you know , and that 's where it stimulated the imagination and took people out of their narrow , humdrum selves .
No one has ever called me narrow or humdrum , but even I felt worked up now and then at the thought of that house with the stricken wombats in it .
It simply was n't nice .
But the editors were unanimous in leaving it alone ; they said the thing had been done before and done worse , and that the market for that sort of work was extremely limited .
It was just on the top of that discouragement that the Duchess wanted me to write something in her album - something Persian , you know , and just a little bit decadent - and I thought a quatrain on an unwholesome egg would meet the requirements of the case .
So I started in with - " Cackle , cackle , little hen , How I wonder if and when Once you laid the egg that I Met , alas !
too late .
Amen . "
The Duchess objected to the Amen , which I thought gave an air of forgiveness and chose jugee to the whole thing ; also she said it was n't Persian enough , as though I were trying to sell her a kitten whose mother had married for love rather than pedigree .
So I recast it entirely , and the new version read - " The hen that laid thee moons ago , who knows In what Dead Yesterday her shades repose ; To some election turn thy waning span And rain thy rottenness on fiscal foes . "
I thought there was enough suggestion of decay in that to satisfy a jackal , and to me there was something infinitely pathetic and appealing in the idea of the egg having a sort of St. Luke 's summer of commercial usefulness .
But the Duchess begged me to leave out any political allusions ; she 's the president of a Women 's Something or other , and she said it might be taken as an endorsement of deplorable methods .
I never can remember which Party Irene discourages with her support , but I sha n't forget an occasion when I was staying at her place and she gave me a pamphlet to leave at the house of a doubtful voter , and some grapes and things for a woman who was suffering from a chill on the top of a patent medicine .
I thought it much cleverer to give the grapes to the former and the political literature to the sick woman , and the Duchess was quite absurdly annoyed about it afterwards .
It seems the leaflet was addressed " To those about to wobble " - I was n't responsible for the silly title of the thing - and the woman never recovered ; anyway , the voter was completely won over by the grapes and jellies , and I think that should have balanced matters .
The Duchess called it bribery , and said it might have compromised the candidate she was supporting ; he was expected to subscribe to church funds and chapel funds , and football and cricket clubs and regattas , and bazaars and beanfeasts and bellringers , and poultry shows and ploughing matches , and reading - rooms and choir outings , and shooting trophies and testimonials , and anything of that sort ; but bribery would not have been tolerated .
I fancy I have perhaps more talent for electioneering than for poetry , and I was really getting extended over this quatrain business .
The egg began to be unmanageable , and the Duchess suggested something with a French literary ring about it .
I hunted back in my mind for the most familiar French classic that I could take liberties with , and after a little exercise of memory I turned out the following : - " Hast thou the pen that once the gardener had ?
I have it not ; and know , these pears are bad .
Oh , larger than the horses of the Prince Are those the general drives in Kaikobad . "
Even that did n't altogether satisfy Irene ; I fancy the geography of it puzzled her .
She probably thought Kaikobad was an unfashionable German spa , where you 'd meet matrimonial bargain - hunters and emergency Servian kings .
My temper was beginning to slip its moorings by that time .
I look rather nice when I lose my temper .
( I hoped you would say I lose it very often .
I must n't monopolise the conversation . )
" Of course , if you want something really Persian and passionate , with red wine and bulbuls in it , " I went on to suggest ; but she grabbed the book away from me .
" Not for worlds .
Nothing with red wine or passion in it .
Dear Agatha gave me the album , and she would be mortified to the quick " - I said I did n't believe Agatha had a quick , and we got quite heated in arguing the matter .
Finally , the Duchess declared I should n't write anything nasty in her book , and I said I would n't write anything in her nasty book , so there was n't a very wide point of difference between us .
For the rest of the afternoon I pretended to be sulking , but I was really working back to that quatrain , like a fox - terrier that 's buried a deferred lunch in a private flower - bed .
When I got an opportunity I hunted up Agatha 's autograph , which had the front page all to itself , and , copying her prim handwriting as well as I could , I inserted above it the following Thibetan fragment : - " With Thee , oh , my Beloved , to do a dak ( a dak I believe is a sort of uncomfortable post - journey ) On the pack - saddle of a grunting yak , With never room for chilling chaperone , ' Twere better than a Panhard in the Park . "
That Agatha would get on to a yak in company with a lover even in the comparative seclusion of Thibet is unthinkable .
I very much doubt if she 'd do it with her own husband in the privacy of the Simplon tunnel .
But poetry , as I 've remarked before , should always stimulate the imagination .
By the way , when you asked me the other day to dine with you on the 14th , I said I was dining with the Duchess .
Well , I 'm not .
I 'm dining with you .
THE INNOCENCE OF REGINALD Reginald slid a carnation of the newest shade into the buttonhole of his latest lounge coat , and surveyed the result with approval .
" I am just in the mood , " he observed , " to have my portrait painted by someone with an unmistakable future .
So comforting to go down to posterity as ' Youth with a Pink Carnation ' in catalogue - company with ' Child with Bunch of Primroses , ' and all that crowd . "
" Youth , " said the Other , " should suggest innocence . "
" But never act on the suggestion .
I do n't believe the two ever really go together .
People talk vaguely about the innocence of a little child , but they take mighty good care not to let it out of their sight for twenty minutes .
The watched pot never boils over .
I knew a boy once who really was innocent ; his parents were in Society , but they never gave him a moment 's anxiety from his infancy .
He believed in company prospectuses , and in the purity of elections , and in women marrying for love , and even in a system for winning at roulette .
He never quite lost his faith in it , but he dropped more money than his employers could afford to lose .
When last I heard of him , he was believing in his innocence ; the jury were n't .
All the same , I really am innocent just now of something everyone accuses me of having done , and so far as I can see , their accusations will remain unfounded . "
" Rather an unexpected attitude for you . "
" I love people who do unexpected things .
Did n't you always adore the man who slew a lion in a pit on a snowy day ?
But about this unfortunate innocence .
Well , quite long ago , when I 'd been quarrelling with more people than usual , you among the number - it must have been in November , I never quarrel with you too near Christmas - I had an idea that I 'd like to write a book .
It was to be a book of personal reminiscences , and was to leave out nothing . "
" Reginald ! "
" Exactly what the Duchess said when I mentioned it to her .
I was provoking and said nothing , and the next thing , of course , was that everyone heard that I 'd written the book and got it in the press .
After that , I might have been a gold - fish in a glass bowl for all the privacy I got .
People attacked me about it in the most unexpected places , and implored or commanded me to leave out things that I 'd forgotten had ever happened .
I sat behind Miriam Klopstock one night in the dress circle at His Majesty 's , and she began at once about the incident of the Chow dog in the bathroom , which she insisted must be struck out .
We had to argue it in a disjointed fashion , because some of the people wanted to listen to the play , and Miriam takes nines in voices .
They had to stop her playing in the ' Macaws ' Hockey Club because you could hear what she thought when her shins got mixed up in a scrimmage for half a mile on a still day .
They are called the Macaws because of their blue - and - yellow costumes , but I understand there was nothing yellow about Miriam 's language .
I agreed to make one alteration , as I pretended I had got it a Spitz instead of a Chow , but beyond that I was firm .
She megaphoned back two minutes later , ' You promised you would never mention it ; do n't you ever keep a promise ? '
When people had stopped glaring in our direction , I replied that I 'd as soon think of keeping white mice .
I saw her tearing little bits out of her programme for a minute or two , and then she leaned back and snorted , ' You 're not the boy I took you for , ' as though she were an eagle arriving at Olympus with the wrong Ganymede .
That was her last audible remark , but she went on tearing up her programme and scattering the pieces around her , till one of her neighbours asked with immense dignity whether she should send for a wastepaper basket .
I did n't stay for the last act . "
" Then there is Mrs. - oh , I never can remember her name ; she lives in a street that the cabmen have never heard of , and is at home on Wednesdays .
She frightened me horribly once at a private view by saying mysteriously , ' I ought n't to be here , you know ; this is one of my days . '
I thought she meant that she was subject to periodical outbreaks and was expecting an attack at any moment .
So embarrassing if she had suddenly taken it into her head that she was Cesar Borgia or St. Elizabeth of Hungary .
That sort of thing would make one unpleasantly conspicuous even at a private view .
However , she merely meant to say that it was Wednesday , which at the moment was incontrovertible .
Well , she 's on quite a different tack to the Klopstock .
She does n't visit anywhere very extensively , and , of course , she 's awfully keen for me to drag in an incident that occurred at one of the Beauwhistle garden - parties , when she says she accidentally hit the shins of a Serene Somebody or other with a croquet mallet and that he swore at her in German .
As a matter of fact , he went on discoursing on the Gordon - Bennett affair in French .
( I never can remember if it 's a new submarine or a divorce .
Of course , how stupid of me ! )
To be disagreeably exact , I fancy she missed him by about two inches - over - anxiousness , probably - but she likes to think she hit him .
I 've felt that way with a partridge which I always imagine keeps on flying strong , out of false pride , till it 's the other side of the hedge .
She said she could tell me everything she was wearing on the occasion .
I said I did n't want my book to read like a laundry list , but she explained that she did n't mean those sort of things . "
" And there 's the Chilworth boy , who can be charming as long as he 's content to be stupid and wear what he 's told to ; but he gets the idea now and then that he 'd like to be epigrammatic , and the result is like watching a rook trying to build a nest in a gale .
Since he got wind of the book , he 's been persecuting me to work in something of his about the Russians and the Yalu Peril , and is quite sulky because I wo n't do it . "
" Altogether , I think it would be rather a brilliant inspiration if you were to suggest a fortnight in Paris . "
Twenty years had left no trace inside Sam Kee 's little shop on Mott Street .
There were the same dusty jars of ginseng root and tigers ' whiskers , the same little bronze Buddahs , the same gim - cracks mixed with fine jade .
Edith Williams gave a little murmur of pleasure as the door shut behind them .
" Mark , " she said , " it has n't changed !
It does n't look as if a thing had been sold since we were here on our honeymoon . "
" It certainly does n't , " Dr. Mark Williams agreed , moving down the narrow aisle behind her .
" If someone had n't told us Sam Kee was dead , I 'd believe we 'd stepped back twenty years in time , like they do in those scientific stories young David reads . "
" We must buy something , " his wife said .
" For a twentieth anniversary present for me .
Perhaps a bell ? "
From the shadowy depths of the shop a young man emerged , American in dress and manner despite the Oriental contours of his face and eyes .
" Good evening , " he said .
" May I show you something ? "
" We think we want a bell , " Dr. Williams chuckled .
" But we are n't quite sure .
You 're Sam Kee 's son ? "
" Sam Kee , junior .
My honored father passed to the halls of his ancestors five years ago .
I could just say that he died - " black eyes twinkled - " but customers like the more flowery mode of speech .
They think it 's quaint . "
" I think it 's just nice , and not quaint at all , " Edith Williams declared .
" We 're sorry your father is dead .
We 'd hoped to see him again .
Twenty years ago when we were a very broke young couple on a honeymoon he sold us a wonderful rose - crystal necklace for half price . "
" I 'm sure he still made a profit . "
The black eyes twinkled again .
" But if you 'd like a bell , here are small temple bells , camel bells , dinner bells .... " But even as he spoke , Edith Williams ' hand darted to something at the back of the shelf .
" A bell carved out of crystal ! "
she exclaimed .
" And rose - crystal at that .
What could be more perfect ?
A rose - crystal wedding present and a rose - crystal anniversary present ! "
The young man half stretched out his hand .
" I do n't think you want that , " he said .
" It 's broken . "
" Broken ? "
Edith Williams rubbed off the dust and held the lovely bell - shape of crystal , the size of a pear , to the light .
" It looks perfect to me . "
" I mean it is not complete . "
Something of the American had vanished from the young man .
" It has no clapper .
It will not ring . "
" Why , that 's right . "
Mark Williams took the bell .
" The clapper 's missing . "
" We can have another clapper made , " his wife declared .
" That is , if the original ca n't be found ? "
The young Chinese shook his head .
" The bell and the clapper were deliberately separated by my father twenty years ago . "
He hesitated , then added : " My father was afraid of this bell . "
" Afraid of it ? "
Mark Williams raised his eyebrows .
The other hesitated again .
" It will probably sound like a story for tourists , " he said .
" But my father believed it .
This bell was supposedly stolen from the temple of a sect of Buddhists somewhere in the mountains of China 's interior .
Just as many Occidentals believe that the Christian Judgement Day will be heralded by a blast on St. Peter 's trumpet , so this small sect is said to believe that when a bell like this one is rung , a bell carved from a single piece of rose crystal , and consecrated by ceremonies lasting ten years , any dead within sound of it will rise and live again . "
" Heavenly ! "
Edith Williams cried .
" And no pun intended .
Mark , think what a help this bell will be in your practise when we make it ring again ! "
To the Chinese she added , smiling : " I 'm just teasing him .
My husband is really a very fine surgeon . "
The other bowed his head .
" I must tell you , " he said , " you will not be able to make it ring .
Only the original clapper , carved from the same block of rose crystal , will ring it .
That is why my father separated them . "
Again he hesitated .
" I have told you only half of what my father told me .
He said that , though it defeats death , Death can not be defeated .
Robbed of his chosen victim , he takes another in his place .
Thus when the bell was used in the temple of its origin - let us say when a high priest or a chief had died - a slave or servant was placed handy for Death to take when he had been forced to relinquish his grasp upon the important one . "
He smiled , shook his head .
" There , " he said .
" A preposterous story .
Now if you wish it , the bell is ten dollars .
Plus , of course , sales tax . "
" The story alone is worth more , " Dr. Williams declared .
" I think we 'd better have it sent , had n't we , Edith ?
It 'll be safer in the mail than in our suitcase . "
" Sent ? "
His wife seemed to come out of some deep feminine meditation .
" Oh , of course .
And as for its not ringing - I shall make it ring .
I know I shall . "
" If the story is true , " Mark Williams murmured , " I hope not .... " The package came on a Saturday morning , when Mark Williams was catching up on the latest medical publications in his untidy , book - lined study .
He heard Edith unwrapping paper in the hall outside .
Then she came in with the rose - crystal bell in her hands .
" Mark , it 's here ! "
she said .
" Now to make it ring . "
She plumped herself down beside his desk .
He took the bell and reached for a silver pencil .
" Just for the sake of curiosity , " he remarked , " and not because I believe that delightful sales talk we were given , let 's see if it will ring when I tap .
It should , you know . "
He tapped the lip of the bell .
A muted thunk was the only response .
Then he tried with a coin , a paper knife , and the bottom of a glass .
In each instance the resulting sound was nothing like a bell ringing .
" If you 've finished , Mark , " Edith said then , with feminine tolerance , " let me show you how it 's done . "
" Gladly , " her husband agreed .
She took the bell and turned away for a moment .
Then she shook the bell vigorously .
A clear , sweet ringing shivered through the room - so thin and etherial that small involuntary shivers crawled up his spine .
" Good Lord ! "
he exclaimed .
" How did you do that ? "
" I just put the clapper back in place with some thread , " Edith told him .
" The clapper ? "
He struck his forehead with his palm .
" Do n't tell me - the crystal necklace we bought twenty years ago ! "
" Of course . "
Her tone was composed .
" As soon as young Sam Kee told us about his father 's separating the clapper and the bell , I remembered the central crystal pendant on my necklace .
It is shaped like a bell clapper - we mentioned it once .
" I guessed right away we had the missing clapper .
But I did n't say so .
I wanted to score on you , Mark - " she smiled affectionately at him - " and because , you know , I had a queer feeling Sam Kee , junior , would n't let us have the bell if he guessed we had the clapper . "
" I do n't think he would . "
Mark Williams picked up his pipe and rubbed the bowl with his thumb .
" Yet he did n't really believe that story he told us any more than we do . "
" No , but his father did .
And if old Sam Kee had told it to us - remember how wrinkled and wise he seemed ?
- I do believe we 'd have believed the story . "
" You 're probably right . "
Dr. Williams rang the bell and waited .
The thin , sweet sound seemed to hang in the air a long moment , then was gone .
" Nope , " he said .
" Nothing happened .
Although , of course , that may be because there was no deceased around to respond . "
" I 'm not sure I feel like joking about the story . "
A small frown gathered on Edith 's forehead .
" I had planned to use the bell as a dinner bell and to tell the story to our guests .
But now - I 'm not sure . "
Frowning , she stared at the bell until the ringing of the telephone in the hall brought her out of her abstraction .
" Sit still , I 'll answer . "
She hurried out .
Dr. Williams , turning the rose crystal bell over in his hand , could hear the sudden tension in her voice as she answered .
He was on his feet when she reentered .
" An emergency operation at the hospital , " she sighed .
" Nice young man - automobile accident .
Fracture of the skull , Dr. Amos says .
He would n't have disturbed you but you 're the only brain man in town , with Dr. Hendryx away on vacation . "
" I know . "
He was already in the hall , reaching for his hat .
" Man 's work is from sun to sun , but a doctor 's work is never done , " he misquoted .
" I 'll drive you . "
Edith followed him out .
" You sit back and relax for another ten minutes .... " Two hours later , as they drove homeward , the traffic was light , which was fortunate .
More than once Mark , in a frowning abstraction , found himself on the left of the center line and had to pull back into his own lane .
He had lost patients before , but never without a feeling of personal defeat .
Edith said he put too much of himself into every operation .
Perhaps he did .
And yet - No , there was every reason why the young man should have lived .
Yet , just as Mark Williams had felt that he had been successful , the patient had died .
In twenty years of marriage , Edith Williams had learned to read his thoughts at times .
Now she put a hand comfortingly on his arm .
" These things happen , darling , " she said .
" You know that .
A doctor can only do so much .
Some of the job always remains in the hands of Nature .
And she does play tricks at times . "
" Yes , confound it , I know it , " her husband growled .
" But I resent losing that lad .
There was no valid reason for it - unless there was some complication I overlooked . "
He shook his head , scowling .
" I ordered an autopsy but - Yes , I 'm going to do that autopsy myself .
I 'm going to turn back and do it now .
I have to know ! "
He pulled abruptly to the left to swing into a side road and turn .
Edith Williams never saw the car that hit them .
She heard the frantic blare of a horn and a scream of brakes , and in a frozen instant realized that there had been someone behind them , about to pass .
Then the impact came , throwing her forward into the windshield and unconsciousness .
Edith Williams opened her eyes .
Even before she realized that she was lying on the ground and that the figure bending over her was a State Trooper , she remembered the crash .
Her head hurt but there was no confusion in her mind .
Automatically , even as she tried to sit up , she accepted the fact that there had been a crash , help had come , and she must have been unconscious for several minutes at least .
" Hey , lady , take it easy ! "
the Trooper protested .
" You had a bad bump .
You got to lie still until the ambulance gets here .
It 'll be along in five minutes . "
" Mark , " Edith said , paying no attention .
" My husband !
Is he all right ? "
" Now lady , please .
He 's being taken care of .
You - " But she was not listening .
Holding to his arm she pulled herself to a sitting position .
She saw their car on its side some yards away , other cars pulled up around them , a little knot of staring people .
Saw them and dismissed them .
Her gaze found her husband , lying on the ground a few feet away , a coat folded beneath his head .
Mark was dead .
She had been a doctor 's wife for twenty years , and before that a nurse .
She knew death when she saw it .
" Mark . "
The word was spoken to herself , but the Trooper took it for a question .
" Yes , lady , " he said .
" He 's dead .
He was still breathing when I got here , but he died two , three minutes ago . "
She got to her knees .
Her only thought was to reach his side .
She scrambled across the few feet of ground to him still on her knees and crouched beside him , fumbling for his pulse .
There was none .
There was nothing .
Just a man who had been alive and now was dead .
Behind her she heard a voice raised .
She turned .
A large , disheveled man was standing beside the Trooper , talking loudly .
" Now listen , officer , " he was saying , " I 'm telling you again , it was n't my fault .
The guy pulled sharp left right in front of me .
Not a thing I could do .
It 's a wonder we were n't all three of us killed .
You can see by the marks on their car it was n't my fault - " Edith Williams closed her mind to the voice .
She let Mark 's hand lie in her lap as she fumbled in her bag , which was somehow still clutched in her fingers .
She groped for a handkerchief to stem the tears which would not be held back .
Something was in the way - something smooth and hard and cold .
She drew it out and heard the thin , sweet tinkle of the crystal bell .
She must have dropped it automatically into her bag as they were preparing to leave the house .
The hand in her lap moved .
She gasped and bent forward as her husband 's eyes opened .
" Mark ! "
she whispered .
" Mark , darling ! "
" Edith , " Mark Williams said with an effort .
" Sorry - damned careless of me .
Thinking of the hospital .... " " You 're alive ! "
she said .
" You 're alive !
Oh , darling , darling , lie still , the ambulance will be here any second . "
" Ambulance ? "
he protested .
" I 'm all right now .
Help me - sit up . "
" But Mark - " " Just a bump on the head . "
He struggled to sit up .
The State Trooper came over .
" Easy , buddy , easy , " he said , his voice awed .
" We thought you were gone .
Now let 's not lose you a second time . "
His mouth was tight .
" Hey , I 'm sure glad you 're all right ! "
the red - faced man said in a rush of words .
" Whew , fellow , you had me all upset , even though it was n't my fault .
I mean , how 's a guy gon na keep from hitting you when - when - " " Catch him ! "
Mark Williams cried , but the Trooper was too late .
The other man plunged forward to the ground and lay where he had fallen without quivering .
The clock in the hall struck two with muted strokes .
Cautiously Edith Williams rose on her elbow and looked down at her husband 's face .
His eyes opened and looked back at her .
" You 're awake , " she said , unnecessarily .
" I woke up a few minutes ago , " he answered .
" I 've been lying here - thinking . "
" I 'll get you another phenobarbital .
Dr. Amos said for you to take them and sleep until tomorrow . "
" I know .
I 'll take one presently .
You know - hearing that clock just now reminded me of something . "
" Yes ? "
" Just before I came to this afternoon , after the crash , I had a strange impression of hearing a bell ring .
It sounded so loud in my ears I opened my eyes to see where it was . "
" A - bell ? "
" Yes .
Just auditory hallucination , of course . "
" But Mark - " " Yes ? "
" A - a bell did ring .
I mean , I had the crystal bell in my bag and it tinkled a little .
Do you suppose - " " Of course not . "
But though he spoke swiftly he did not sound convincing .
" This was a loud bell .
Like a great gong . "
" But - I mean , Mark darling - a moment earlier you - had no pulse . "
" No pulse ? "
" And you were n't - breathing .
Then the crystal bell tinkled and you - you .... " " Nonsense !
I know what you 're thinking and believe me - it 's nonsense ! "
" But Mark . "
She spoke carefully .
" The driver of the other car .
You had no sooner regained consciousness than he - " " He had a fractured skull ! "
Dr. Williams interrupted sharply .
" The ambulance intern diagnosed it .
Skull fractures often fail to show themselves and then - bingo , you keel over .
That 's what happened .
Now let 's say no more about it . "
" Of course . "
In the hall , the clock struck the quarter hour .
" Shall I fix the phenobarbital now ? "
" Yes - no .
Is David home ? "
She hesitated .
" No , he has n't got back yet . "
" Has he phoned ?
He knows he 's supposed to be in by midnight at the latest . "
" No , he - has n't phoned .
But there 's a school dance tonight . "
" That 's no excuse for not phoning .
He has the old car , has n't he ? "
" Yes .
You gave him the keys this morning , remember ? "
" All the more reason he should phone . "
Dr. Williams lay silent a moment .
" Two o'clock is too late for a 17 - year - old boy to be out . "
" I 'll speak to him .
He wo n't do it again .
Now please , Mark , let me get you the phenobarbital .
I 'll stay up until David - " The ringing phone , a clamor in the darkness , interrupted her .
Mark Williams reached for it .
The extension was beside his bed .
" Hello , " he said .
And then , although she could not hear the answering voice , she felt him stiffen .
And she knew .
As well as if she could hear the words she knew , with a mother 's instinct for disaster .
" Yes , " Dr. Williams said .
" Yes ...
I see ...
I understand ...
I 'll come at once ....
Thank you for calling . "
He slid out of bed before she could stop him .
" An emergency call . "
He spoke quietly .
" I have to go . "
He began to throw on his clothes .
" It 's David , " she said .
" Is n't it ? "
She sat up .
" Do n't try to keep me from knowing .
It 's about David . "
" Yes , " he said .
His voice was very tired .
" David is hurt .
I have to go to him .
An accident . "
" He 's dead . "
She said it steadily .
" David 's dead , is n't he , Mark ? "
He came over and sat beside her and put his arms around her .
" Edith , " he said .
" Edith - Yes , he 's dead .
Forty minutes ago .
The car - went over a curve .
They have him - at the County morgue .
They want me to - identify him .
Identify him .
Edith !
You see , the car caught fire ! "
" I 'm coming with you , " she said .
" I 'm coming with you ! "
The taxi waited in a pool of darkness between two street lights .
The long , low building which was the County morgue , a blue lamp over its door , stood below the street level .
A flight of concrete steps went down to it from the sidewalk .
Ten minutes before , Dr. Mark Williams had gone down those steps .
Now he climbed back up them , stiffly , wearily , like an old man .
Edith was waiting in the taxi , sitting forward on the edge of the seat , hands clenched .
As he reached the last step she opened the door and stepped out .
" Mark , " she asked shakily , " was it - " " Yes , it 's David . "
His voice was a monotone .
" Our son .
I 've completed the formalities .
For now the only thing we can do is go home . "
" I 'm going to him ! "
She tried to pass .
He caught her wrist .
Discretely the taxi driver pretended to doze .
" No , Edith !
There 's no need .
You must n't - see him ! "
" He 's my son ! "
she cried .
" Let me go ! "
" No !
What have you got under your coat ? "
" It 's the bell , the rose - crystal bell ! "
she cried .
" I 'm going to ring it where David can hear ! "
Defiantly she brought forth her hand , clutching the little bell .
" It brought you back , Mark !
Now it 's going to bring back David ! "
" Edith ! "
he said in horror .
" You must n't believe that 's possible .
You ca n't .
Those were coincidences .
Now let me have it . "
" No !
I 'm going to ring it . "
Violently she tried to break out of his grip .
" I want David back !
I 'm going to ring the bell ! "
She got her hand free .
The crystal bell rang in the quiet of the early morning with an eerie thinness , penetrating the silence like a silver knife .
" There ! "
Edith Williams panted .
" I 've rung it .
I know you do n't believe , but I do .
It 'll bring David back . "
She raised her voice .
" David ! "
she called .
" David , son !
Can you hear me ? "
" Edith , " Dr. Williams groaned .
" You 're just tormenting yourself .
Come home .
Please come home . "
" Not until David has come back .... David , David , can you hear me ? "
She rang the bell again , rang it until Dr. Williams seized it , then she let him take it .
" Edith , Edith , " he groaned .
" If only you had let me come alone .... " " Mark , listen ! "
" What ? "
" Listen ! "
she whispered with fierce urgency .
He was silent .
And then fingers of horror drew themselves down his spine at the clear , youthful voice that came up to them from the darkness below .
" Mother ? ...
Dad ? ...
Where are you ? "
" David ! "
Edith Williams breathed .
" It 's David !
Let me go !
I must go to him . "
" No , Edith ! "
her husband whispered frantically , as the voice below called again .
" Dad ? ...
Mother ? ...
Are you up there ?
Wait for me . "
" Let me go ! "
she sobbed .
" David , we 're here !
We 're up here , son ! "
" Edith ! "
Mark Williams gasped .
" If you 've ever loved me , listen to me .
You must n't go down there .
David - I had to identify him by his class ring and his wallet .
He was burned - terribly burned ! "
" I 'm going to him ! "
She wrenched herself free and sped for the steps , up which now was coming a tall form , a shadow shrouded in the darkness .
Dr. Williams , horror knotting his stomach , leaped to stop her .
But he slipped and fell headlong on the pavement , so that she was able to pant down the stairs to meet the upcoming figure .
" Oh , David , " she sobbed , " David ! "
" Hey , Mom ! "
The boy held her steady .
" I 'm sorry .
I 'm terribly sorry .
But I did n't know what had happened until I got home and you were n't there and then one of the fellows from the fraternity called me .
I realized they must have made a mistake , and you 'd come here , and I called for a taxi and came out here .
My taxi let me off at the entrance around the block , and I 've been looking for you down there .... Poor Pete ! "
" Pete ? "
she asked .
" Pete Friedburg .
He was driving the old car .
I lent him the keys and my driver 's license .
I should n't have - but he 's older and he kept begging me .... " " Then - then it 's Pete who was killed ? "
she gasped .
" Pete who was - burned ? "
" Yes , Pete .
I feel terrible about lending him the car .
But he was supposed to be a good driver .
And then them calling you , you and Dad thinking it was me - " " Then Mark was right .
Of course he was right . "
She was laughing and sobbing now .
" It 's just a bell , a pretty little bell , that 's all . "
" Bell ?
I do n't follow you , Mom . "
" Never mind , " Edith Williams gasped .
" It 's just a bell .
It has n't any powers over life and death .
It does n't bring back and it does n't take away .
But let 's get back up to your father .
He may be thinking that the bell - that the bell really worked . "
They climbed the rest of the steps .
Dr. Mark Williams still lay where he had fallen headlong on the pavement .
The cab driver was bending over him , but there was nothing to be done .
The crystal bell had been beneath him when he fell , and it had broken .
One long , fine splinter of crystal was embedded in his heart .
The loft of the feed - house , with its stacked grainsacks , was a B - 72 , a fort , a foxhole - any number of things , depending on Phildee 's moods .
Today it was a jumping - off place .
Phildee slipped out of his dormitory and ran across the yard to the feed - house .
He dropped the big wooden latch behind him , and climbed up the ladder to the loft , depending on the slight strength of his young arms more than on his legs , which had to be lifted to straining heights before they could negotiate the man - sized rungs .
He reached the loft and stood panting , looking out over the farm through the loft door , at the light wooden fences around it , and the circling antenna of the radar tower .
Usually , he spent at least a little time each day crouched behind the grainsacks and being bigger and older , firing cooly and accurately into charging companies of burly , thick - lipped UES soldiers , or going over on one wing and whistling down on a flight of TT - 34 's that scattered like frightened ducks before the fiery sleet of his wing rockets .
But today was different , today there was something he wanted to try .
He stood up on his toes and searched .
He felt the touch of Miss Cowan 's mind , no different from that of anyone else - flat , unsystematic .
He sighed .
Perhaps , somewhere , there was someone else like himself .
For a moment , the fright of loneliness invaded him , but then faded .
He took a last look at the farm , then moved away from the open door , letting his mind slip into another way of thinking .
His chubby features twisted into a scowl of concentration as he visualized reality .
The scowl became a deeper grimace as he negated that reality , step by step , and substituted another .
F is for Phildee .
O is for Out .
R is for Reimann .
T is for Topology .
H is for heartsick hunger .
Abruptly , the Reimann fold became a concrete visualization .
As though printed clearly in and around the air , which was simultaneously both around him and not around him , which existed / not existed in spacetime , he saw the sideslip diagram .
He twisted .
Spring had come to Riya 's world ; spring and the thousand sounds of it .
The melted snow in the mountaintops ran down in traceries of leaping water , and the spring - crests raced along the creeks into the rivers .
The riverbank grasses sprang into life ; the plains turned green again .
Riya made her way up the path across the foothills , conscious of her shame .
The green plain below her was dotted , two by two , with the figures of her people .
It was spring , and Time .
Only she was alone .
There was a special significance in the fact that she was here on this path in this season .
The plains on either side of the brown river were her people 's territory .
During the summer , the couples ranged over the grass until the dams were ready to drop their calves .
Then it became the bulls ' duty to forage for their entire families until the youngsters were able to travel south to the winter range .
Through the space of years , the people had increased in numbers , the pressure of this steady growth making itself felt as the yearlings filled out on the winter range .
It had become usual , as the slow drift northward was made toward the end of winter , for some of the people to split away from the main body and range beyond the gray mountains that marked the western limits of the old territories .
Since these wanderers were usually the most willful and headstrong , they were regarded as quasi - outcasts by the more settled people of the old range .
But - and here Riya felt the shame pierce more strongly than ever - they had their uses , occasionally .
Preoccupied in her shame , she involuntarily turned her head downward , anxious that none of the people be staring derisively upward at the shaggy brown hump of fur that was she , toiling up the path .
She was not the first - but that was meaningless .
That other female people had been ugly or old , that the same unforgotten force that urged her up the mountain path had brought others here before her , meant only that she was incapable of accepting the verdict of the years that had thinned her pelt , dimmed her eyes , and broken the smooth rhythm of her gait .
In short , it meant that Riya Sair , granddam times over , spurned by every male on the old range , was willing to cross the gray mountains and risk death from the resentful wild dams for the thin hope that there was a male among the wildlings who would sire her calf .
She turned her head back to the path and hurried on , cringing in inward self - reproach at her speed .
Except for her age , Riya presented a perfect average of her people .
She stood two yards high and two wide at the shoulders , a yard at the haunches , and measured three and a half yards from her muzzle to the rudimentary tail .
Her legs were short and stumpy , cloven - hooved .
Her massive head hung slightly lower than her shoulders , and could be lowered to within an inch or two of the ground .
She was herbivorous , ruminant , and mammalian .
Moreover , she had intelligence - not of a very high order , but adequate for her needs .
From a Terrestrial point of view , none of this was remarkable .
Many years of evolution had gone into her fashioning - more years for her one species than for all the varieties of man that have ever been .
Nevertheless , she did have some remarkable attributes .
It was one of these attributes that now enabled her to sense what happened on the path ahead of her .
She stopped still , only her long fur moving in the breeze .
Phildee - five , towheaded , round faced , chubby , dressed in a slightly grubby corduroy oversuit , and precocious - had his attributes , too .
Grubby and tousled ; branded with a thread of licorice from one corner of his mouth to his chin ; involved in the loss of his first milk - tooth , as he was - he nevertheless slipped onto the path on Riya 's world , the highest product of Terrestrial evolution .
Alice followed a white rabbit down a hole .
Phildee followed Reimann down into a hole that , at the same time , followed him , and emerged - where ?
Phildee did n't know .
He could have performed the calculation necessary to the task almost instantly , but he was five .
It was too much trouble .
He looked up , and saw a gray slope of rock vaulting above him .
He looked down , and saw it fall away toward a plain on which were scattered pairs of foraging animals .
He felt a warm breeze , smelled it , saw it blow dust along the path , and saw Riya : [ Illustration ] B is for big brown beast .
L is for looming large , looking lonely .
B ?
L ?
Bull ?
No - bison .
Bison : bison ( bi'sn ) n. The buffalo of the N. Amer .
plains .
Phildee shook his head and scowled .
No - not bison , either .
What , then ?
He probed .
Riya took a step forward .
The sight of a living organism other than a person was completely unfamiliar to her .
Nevertheless , anything that small , and undeniably covered - in most areas , at least - with some kind of fur , could not , logically , be anything but a strange kind of calf .
But - she stopped , and raised her head - if a calf , then where was the call ?
Phildee 's probe swept past the laboring mind directly into her telepathic , instinctual centers .
Voiceless , with their environment so favorable that it had never been necessary for them to develop prehensile limbs , female people had nevertheless evolved a method of child care commensurate with their comparatively higher intelligence .
Soft as tender fingers , gentle as the human hand that smooths the awry hair back from the young forehead , Riya 's mental caress enfolded Phildee .
Phildee recoiled .
The feeling was : Warm Soft Sweet Not candy in the mouth Candy in the mouth Familiar Good Tasty Nice The feeling was Not Familiar Not Good Not Tasty Not Nice WHY ?
: M is for many motionless months .
T is for tense temper tantrums .
R is for rabid - NO !
- rapid rolling wrench .
MTR .
Mother .
Phildee 's mother wanted Phildee 's father .
Phildee 's mother wanted green grass and apple trees , tight skirts and fur jackets on Fifth Avenue , men to turn and look , a little room where nobody could see her .
Phildee 's mother had radiation burns .
Phildee 's mother was dead .
He wavered ; physically .
Maintaining his position in this world was a process that demanded constant attention from the segment of his mind devoted to it .
For a moment , even that small group of brain cells almost became involved in his reaction .
It was that which snapped him back into functioning logically .
MTR was Mother .
Mother was : Tall Thin White Biped " In Heaven 's name , Doctor , when will this thing be over ? "
BL was Riya .
Riya was : Big brown beast , looming large , looking lonely .
BL = MTR Equation not meaningful , not valid .
Almost resolved , only a few traces of the initial conflict remained .
Phildee put the tips of his right fingers to his mouth .
He dug his toe into the ground , gouged a semicircular furrow , and smoothed it over with his sole .
Riya continued to look at him from where she was standing , two or three feet away .
Haltingly , she reached out her mind again - hesitating not because of fear of another such reaction on Phildee 's part , for that had been far beyond her capacity to understand , but because even the slightest rebuff on the part of a child to a gesture as instinctive as a Terrestrial mother 's caress was something that none of the people had ever encountered before .
While her left - behind intellectual capacity still struggled to reconcile the feel of childhood with a visual image of complete unfamiliarity , the warm mind - caress went gently forth again .
Phildee made up his mind .
Ordinarily , he was immune to the small emotional problems that beclouded less rational intellects .
He was unused to functioning in other than a cause / effect universe .
Mothers were usually - though sometimes not - matronly women who spent the greater part of roughly twenty years per child in conscious pre - occupation with , and/or subconscious or conscious rejection of , their offspring .
In his special case , Mother was a warm place , a frantic , hysteric voice , the pressure of the spasmodically contractile musculature linked to her hyperthyroid metabolism .
Mother was a thing from before birth .
Riya - Riya bore a strong resemblance to an intelligent cow .
In any physiological sense , she could no more be his mother than - The second caress found him not unaccustomed to it .
It enfolded his consciousness , tenderly , protectingly , empathetic .
Phildee gave way to instinct .
The fur along the ridge of Riya 's spine prickled with a well - remembered happiness as she felt the hesitant answering surge in Phildee 's mind .
Moving surely forward , she nuzzled his face .
Phildee grinned .
He ran his fingers through the thick fur at the base of her short neck .
Big warm wall of brown fur .
Cool , happy nose .
Happy , happy , eyes .
Great joy welled up in Riya .
No shameful trot across the mountains faced her now .
No hesitant approach to the huddled , suspicious wildlings was before her .
The danger of sharp female hooves to be avoided , of skulking at the edge of the herd in hope of an anxious male , was a thing no longer to be half - fearfully approached .
With a nudge of her head , she directed Phildee down the path to the old range while she herself turned around .
She stood motionless for a sweeping scan of the plain below her .
The couples were scattered over the grass - but couples only , the females as yet unfulfilled .
This , too , was another joy to add to the greatest of all .
So many things about her calf were incomprehensible - the only dimly - felt overtones of projected symbology that accompanied Phildee 's emotional reactions , the alien structure - so many , many things .
Her mind floundered vainly through the complex data .
But all that was nothing .
What did it matter ?
The Time had been , and for another season , she was a dam .
Phildee walked beside her down the path , one fist wrapped in the fur of her flank , short legs windmilling .
They reached the plain , and Riya struck out across it toward the greatest concentration of people , her head proudly raised .
She stopped once , and deliberately cropped a mouthful of grass with unconcern , but resumed her pace immediately thereafter .
With the same unconcern , she nudged Phildee into the center of the group of people , and , ignoring them , began teaching her calf to feed .
Eat .
( Picture of Phildee / calf on all fours , cropping the plains grass . )
Phildee stared at her in puzzlement .
Grass was not food .
He sent the data emphatically .
Riya felt the tenuous discontent .
She replied with tender understanding .
Sometimes the calf was hesitant .
Eat .
( Gently , understandingly , but firmly .
[ Repetition of picture . ] )
She bent her head and pushed him carefully over , then held his head down with a gentle pressure of her muzzle .
Eat .
Phildee squirmed .
He slipped out from under her nose and regained his Feet .
He looked at the other people , who were staring in puzzlement at Riya and himself .
He felt himself pushed forward again .
Eat .
Abruptly , he realized the situation .
In a culture of herbivores , what food could there be but herbiage ?
There would be milk , in time , but not for - he probed - months .
In probing , too , he found the visualization of his life with her ready at the surface of Riya 's mind .
There was no shelter on the plain .
His fur was all the shelter necessary .
But I do n't have any fur .
In the fall , they would move to the southern range .
Walk ?
A thousand miles ?
He would grow big and strong .
In a year , he would be a sire himself .
His reaction was simple , and practiced .
He adjusted his reality concept to Reimannian topology .
Not actually , but subjectively , he felt himself beginning to slip Earthward .
Riya stiffened in alarm .
The calf was straying .
The knowledge was relayed from her mother - centers to the telepathic functions .
Stop .
You can not go there .
You must be with your mother .
You are not grown .
Stop .
Stay with me .
I will protect you .
I love you .
The universe shuddered .
Phildee adjusted frantically .
Cutting through the delicately maintained reality concept was a scrambling , jamming frequency of thought .
In terror , he flung himself backward into Riya 's world .
Standing completely still , he probed frantically into Riya 's mind .
And found her mind only fumblingly beginning to intellectualize the simple formulization of what her instinctive centers had computed , systematized , and activated before her conscious mind had even begun to doubt that everything was well .
His mind accepted the data , and computed .
Handless and voiceless , not so fast afoot in their bulkiness as the weakest month - old calf , the people had long ago evolved the restraints necessary for rearing their children .
If the calf romped and ran , his mother ran beside him , and the calf was not permitted to run faster than she .
If a calf strayed from its sleeping mother , it strayed only so far , and then the mother woke - but the calf had already long been held back by the time her intelligence awoke to the straying .
The knowledge and computations were fed in Phildee 's rational centers .
The Universe - and Earth - were closed to him .
He must remain here .
But human children could not survive in this environment .
He had to find a solution - instantly .
He clinched his fists , feeling his arm muscles quiver .
His lower lip was pulled into his mouth , and his teeth sank in .
The diagram - the pattern - bigger - stronger - try - try - this is not real - this is real : brown earth , white clouds , blue sky - try - mouth full of warm salt ... F is for Phildee !
O is for Out !
R is for Riya !
T is for Topology !
H is for happiness and home !
Riya shook herself .
She stood in the furrows of a plowed field , her eyes vacant with bewilderment .
She stared uncomprehendingly at the walls and the radar tower , the concrete shoulders of the air raid bunkers .
She saw antiaircraft quick - firers being hastily cranked around and down at her , heard Phildee 's shout that saved her life , and understood none of it .
But none of it mattered .
Her strange calf was with her , standing beside her with his fingers locked in her fur , and she could feel the warm response in his mind as she touched him with her caress again .
She saw the other little calves erupting out of the low dormitory buildings , and something within her crooned .
Riya nuzzled her foundling .
She looked about her at the War Orphans ' Relocation Farm with her happy , happy eyes .
By the side of a wood , in a country a long way off , ran a fine stream of water ; and upon the stream there stood a mill .
The miller 's house was close by , and the miller , you must know , had a very beautiful daughter .
She was , moreover , very shrewd and clever ; and the miller was so proud of her , that he one day told the king of the land , who used to come and hunt in the wood , that his daughter could spin gold out of straw .
Now this king was very fond of money ; and when he heard the miller 's boast his greediness was raised , and he sent for the girl to be brought before him .
Then he led her to a chamber in his palace where there was a great heap of straw , and gave her a spinning - wheel , and said , ' All this must be spun into gold before morning , as you love your life . '
It was in vain that the poor maiden said that it was only a silly boast of her father , for that she could do no such thing as spin straw into gold : the chamber door was locked , and she was left alone .
She sat down in one corner of the room , and began to bewail her hard fate ; when on a sudden the door opened , and a droll - looking little man hobbled in , and said , ' Good morrow to you , my good lass ; what are you weeping for ? '
' Alas ! '
said she , ' I must spin this straw into gold , and I know not how . '
' What will you give me , ' said the hobgoblin , ' to do it for you ? '
' My necklace , ' replied the maiden .
He took her at her word , and sat himself down to the wheel , and whistled and sang : ' Round about , round about , Lo and behold !
Reel away , reel away , Straw into gold ! '
And round about the wheel went merrily ; the work was quickly done , and the straw was all spun into gold .
When the king came and saw this , he was greatly astonished and pleased ; but his heart grew still more greedy of gain , and he shut up the poor miller 's daughter again with a fresh task .
Then she knew not what to do , and sat down once more to weep ; but the dwarf soon opened the door , and said , ' What will you give me to do your task ? '
' The ring on my finger , ' said she .
So her little friend took the ring , and began to work at the wheel again , and whistled and sang : ' Round about , round about , Lo and behold !
Reel away , reel away , Straw into gold ! '
till , long before morning , all was done again .
The king was greatly delighted to see all this glittering treasure ; but still he had not enough : so he took the miller 's daughter to a yet larger heap , and said , ' All this must be spun tonight ; and if it is , you shall be my queen . '
As soon as she was alone that dwarf came in , and said , ' What will you give me to spin gold for you this third time ? '
' I have nothing left , ' said she .
' Then say you will give me , ' said the little man , ' the first little child that you may have when you are queen . '
' That may never be , ' thought the miller 's daughter : and as she knew no other way to get her task done , she said she would do what he asked .
Round went the wheel again to the old song , and the manikin once more spun the heap into gold .
The king came in the morning , and , finding all he wanted , was forced to keep his word ; so he married the miller 's daughter , and she really became queen .
At the birth of her first little child she was very glad , and forgot the dwarf , and what she had said .
But one day he came into her room , where she was sitting playing with her baby , and put her in mind of it .
Then she grieved sorely at her misfortune , and said she would give him all the wealth of the kingdom if he would let her off , but in vain ; till at last her tears softened him , and he said , ' I will give you three days ' grace , and if during that time you tell me my name , you shall keep your child . '
Now the queen lay awake all night , thinking of all the odd names that she had ever heard ; and she sent messengers all over the land to find out new ones .
The next day the little man came , and she began with TIMOTHY , ICHABOD , BENJAMIN , JEREMIAH , and all the names she could remember ; but to all and each of them he said , ' Madam , that is not my name . '
The second day she began with all the comical names she could hear of , BANDY - LEGS , HUNCHBACK , CROOK - SHANKS , and so on ; but the little gentleman still said to every one of them , ' Madam , that is not my name . '
The third day one of the messengers came back , and said , ' I have travelled two days without hearing of any other names ; but yesterday , as I was climbing a high hill , among the trees of the forest where the fox and the hare bid each other good night , I saw a little hut ; and before the hut burnt a fire ; and round about the fire a funny little dwarf was dancing upon one leg , and singing : " Merrily the feast I 'll make .
Today I 'll brew , tomorrow bake ; Merrily I 'll dance and sing , For next day will a stranger bring .
Little does my lady dream Rumpelstiltskin is my name ! "
When the queen heard this she jumped for joy , and as soon as her little friend came she sat down upon her throne , and called all her court round to enjoy the fun ; and the nurse stood by her side with the baby in her arms , as if it was quite ready to be given up .
Then the little man began to chuckle at the thought of having the poor child , to take home with him to his hut in the woods ; and he cried out , ' Now , lady , what is my name ? '
' Is it JOHN ? '
asked she .
' No , madam ! '
' Is it TOM ? '
' No , madam ! '
' Is it JEMMY ? '
' It is not . '
' Can your name be ? '
said the lady slyly .
' Some witch told you that !
- some witch told you that ! '
cried the little man , and dashed his right foot in a rage so deep into the floor , that he was forced to lay hold of it with both hands to pull it out .
Then he made the best of his way off , while the nurse laughed and the baby crowed ; and all the court jeered at him for having had so much trouble for nothing , and said , ' We wish you a very good morning , and a merry feast , Mr RUMPLESTILTSKIN ! '
There was once a poor widow who lived in a lonely cottage .
In front of the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose - trees , one of which bore white and the other red roses .
She had two children who were like the two rose - trees , and one was called Snow - white , and the other Rose - red .
They were as good and happy , as busy and cheerful as ever two children in the world were , only Snow - white was more quiet and gentle than Rose - red .
Rose - red liked better to run about in the meadows and fields seeking flowers and catching butterflies ; but Snow - white sat at home with her mother , and helped her with her housework , or read to her when there was nothing to do .
The two children were so fond of one another that they always held each other by the hand when they went out together , and when Snow - white said : ' We will not leave each other , ' Rose - red answered : ' Never so long as we live , ' and their mother would add : ' What one has she must share with the other . '
They often ran about the forest alone and gathered red berries , and no beasts did them any harm , but came close to them trustfully .
The little hare would eat a cabbage - leaf out of their hands , the roe grazed by their side , the stag leapt merrily by them , and the birds sat still upon the boughs , and sang whatever they knew .
No mishap overtook them ; if they had stayed too late in the forest , and night came on , they laid themselves down near one another upon the moss , and slept until morning came , and their mother knew this and did not worry on their account .
Once when they had spent the night in the wood and the dawn had roused them , they saw a beautiful child in a shining white dress sitting near their bed .
He got up and looked quite kindly at them , but said nothing and went into the forest .
And when they looked round they found that they had been sleeping quite close to a precipice , and would certainly have fallen into it in the darkness if they had gone only a few paces further .
And their mother told them that it must have been the angel who watches over good children .
Snow - white and Rose - red kept their mother 's little cottage so neat that it was a pleasure to look inside it .
In the summer Rose - red took care of the house , and every morning laid a wreath of flowers by her mother 's bed before she awoke , in which was a rose from each tree .
In the winter Snow - white lit the fire and hung the kettle on the hob .
The kettle was of brass and shone like gold , so brightly was it polished .
In the evening , when the snowflakes fell , the mother said : ' Go , Snow - white , and bolt the door , ' and then they sat round the hearth , and the mother took her spectacles and read aloud out of a large book , and the two girls listened as they sat and spun .
And close by them lay a lamb upon the floor , and behind them upon a perch sat a white dove with its head hidden beneath its wings .
One evening , as they were thus sitting comfortably together , someone knocked at the door as if he wished to be let in .
The mother said : ' Quick , Rose - red , open the door , it must be a traveller who is seeking shelter . '
Rose - red went and pushed back the bolt , thinking that it was a poor man , but it was not ; it was a bear that stretched his broad , black head within the door .
Rose - red screamed and sprang back , the lamb bleated , the dove fluttered , and Snow - white hid herself behind her mother 's bed .
But the bear began to speak and said : ' Do not be afraid , I will do you no harm !
I am half - frozen , and only want to warm myself a little beside you . '
' Poor bear , ' said the mother , ' lie down by the fire , only take care that you do not burn your coat . '
Then she cried : ' Snow - white , Rose - red , come out , the bear will do you no harm , he means well . '
So they both came out , and by - and - by the lamb and dove came nearer , and were not afraid of him .
The bear said : ' Here , children , knock the snow out of my coat a little ' ; so they brought the broom and swept the bear 's hide clean ; and he stretched himself by the fire and growled contentedly and comfortably .
It was not long before they grew quite at home , and played tricks with their clumsy guest .
They tugged his hair with their hands , put their feet upon his back and rolled him about , or they took a hazel - switch and beat him , and when he growled they laughed .
But the bear took it all in good part , only when they were too rough he called out : ' Leave me alive , children , Snow - white , Rose - red , Will you beat your wooer dead ? '
When it was bed - time , and the others went to bed , the mother said to the bear : ' You can lie there by the hearth , and then you will be safe from the cold and the bad weather . '
As soon as day dawned the two children let him out , and he trotted across the snow into the forest .
Henceforth the bear came every evening at the same time , laid himself down by the hearth , and let the children amuse themselves with him as much as they liked ; and they got so used to him that the doors were never fastened until their black friend had arrived .
When spring had come and all outside was green , the bear said one morning to Snow - white : ' Now I must go away , and can not come back for the whole summer . '
' Where are you going , then , dear bear ? '
asked Snow - white .
' I must go into the forest and guard my treasures from the wicked dwarfs .
In the winter , when the earth is frozen hard , they are obliged to stay below and can not work their way through ; but now , when the sun has thawed and warmed the earth , they break through it , and come out to pry and steal ; and what once gets into their hands , and in their caves , does not easily see daylight again . '
Snow - white was quite sorry at his departure , and as she unbolted the door for him , and the bear was hurrying out , he caught against the bolt and a piece of his hairy coat was torn off , and it seemed to Snow - white as if she had seen gold shining through it , but she was not sure about it .
The bear ran away quickly , and was soon out of sight behind the trees .
A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forest to get firewood .
There they found a big tree which lay felled on the ground , and close by the trunk something was jumping backwards and forwards in the grass , but they could not make out what it was .
When they came nearer they saw a dwarf with an old withered face and a snow - white beard a yard long .
The end of the beard was caught in a crevice of the tree , and the little fellow was jumping about like a dog tied to a rope , and did not know what to do .
He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried : ' Why do you stand there ?
Can you not come here and help me ? '
' What are you up to , little man ? '
asked Rose - red .
' You stupid , prying goose ! '
answered the dwarf : ' I was going to split the tree to get a little wood for cooking .
The little bit of food that we people get is immediately burnt up with heavy logs ; we do not swallow so much as you coarse , greedy folk .
I had just driven the wedge safely in , and everything was going as I wished ; but the cursed wedge was too smooth and suddenly sprang out , and the tree closed so quickly that I could not pull out my beautiful white beard ; so now it is tight and I can not get away , and the silly , sleek , milk - faced things laugh !
Ugh !
how odious you are ! '
The children tried very hard , but they could not pull the beard out , it was caught too fast .
' I will run and fetch someone , ' said Rose - red .
' You senseless goose ! '
snarled the dwarf ; ' why should you fetch someone ?
You are already two too many for me ; can you not think of something better ? '
' Do n't be impatient , ' said Snow - white , ' I will help you , ' and she pulled her scissors out of her pocket , and cut off the end of the beard .
As soon as the dwarf felt himself free he laid hold of a bag which lay amongst the roots of the tree , and which was full of gold , and lifted it up , grumbling to himself : ' Uncouth people , to cut off a piece of my fine beard .
Bad luck to you ! '
and then he swung the bag upon his back , and went off without even once looking at the children .
Some time afterwards Snow - white and Rose - red went to catch a dish of fish .
As they came near the brook they saw something like a large grasshopper jumping towards the water , as if it were going to leap in .
They ran to it and found it was the dwarf .
' Where are you going ? '
said Rose - red ; ' you surely do n't want to go into the water ? '
' I am not such a fool ! '
cried the dwarf ; ' do n't you see that the accursed fish wants to pull me in ? '
The little man had been sitting there fishing , and unluckily the wind had tangled up his beard with the fishing - line ; a moment later a big fish made a bite and the feeble creature had not strength to pull it out ; the fish kept the upper hand and pulled the dwarf towards him .
He held on to all the reeds and rushes , but it was of little good , for he was forced to follow the movements of the fish , and was in urgent danger of being dragged into the water .
The girls came just in time ; they held him fast and tried to free his beard from the line , but all in vain , beard and line were entangled fast together .
There was nothing to do but to bring out the scissors and cut the beard , whereby a small part of it was lost .
When the dwarf saw that he screamed out : ' Is that civil , you toadstool , to disfigure a man 's face ?
Was it not enough to clip off the end of my beard ?
Now you have cut off the best part of it .
I can not let myself be seen by my people .
I wish you had been made to run the soles off your shoes ! '
Then he took out a sack of pearls which lay in the rushes , and without another word he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone .
It happened that soon afterwards the mother sent the two children to the town to buy needles and thread , and laces and ribbons .
The road led them across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn about .
There they noticed a large bird hovering in the air , flying slowly round and round above them ; it sank lower and lower , and at last settled near a rock not far away .
Immediately they heard a loud , piteous cry .
They ran up and saw with horror that the eagle had seized their old acquaintance the dwarf , and was going to carry him off .
The children , full of pity , at once took tight hold of the little man , and pulled against the eagle so long that at last he let his booty go .
As soon as the dwarf had recovered from his first fright he cried with his shrill voice : ' Could you not have done it more carefully !
You dragged at my brown coat so that it is all torn and full of holes , you clumsy creatures ! '
Then he took up a sack full of precious stones , and slipped away again under the rock into his hole .
The girls , who by this time were used to his ingratitude , went on their way and did their business in town .
As they crossed the heath again on their way home they surprised the dwarf , who had emptied out his bag of precious stones in a clean spot , and had not thought that anyone would come there so late .
The evening sun shone upon the brilliant stones ; they glittered and sparkled with all colours so beautifully that the children stood still and stared at them .
' Why do you stand gaping there ? '
cried the dwarf , and his ashen - grey face became copper - red with rage .
He was still cursing when a loud growling was heard , and a black bear came trotting towards them out of the forest .
The dwarf sprang up in a fright , but he could not reach his cave , for the bear was already close .
Then in the dread of his heart he cried : ' Dear Mr Bear , spare me , I will give you all my treasures ; look , the beautiful jewels lying there !
Grant me my life ; what do you want with such a slender little fellow as I ?
you would not feel me between your teeth .
Come , take these two wicked girls , they are tender morsels for you , fat as young quails ; for mercy 's sake eat them ! '
The bear took no heed of his words , but gave the wicked creature a single blow with his paw , and he did not move again .
The girls had run away , but the bear called to them : ' Snow - white and Rose - red , do not be afraid ; wait , I will come with you . '
Then they recognized his voice and waited , and when he came up to them suddenly his bearskin fell off , and he stood there a handsome man , clothed all in gold .
' I am a king 's son , ' he said , ' and I was bewitched by that wicked dwarf , who had stolen my treasures ; I have had to run about the forest as a savage bear until I was freed by his death .
Now he has got his well - deserved punishment .
Snow - white was married to him , and Rose - red to his brother , and they divided between them the great treasure which the dwarf had gathered together in his cave .
The old mother lived peacefully and happily with her children for many years .
She took the two rose - trees with her , and they stood before her window , and every year bore the most beautiful roses , white and red .
The Brothers Grimm , Jacob ( 1785 - 1863 ) and Wilhelm ( 1786 - 1859 ) , were born in Hanau , near Frankfurt , in the German state of Hesse .
Throughout their lives they remained close friends , and both studied law at Marburg University .
Jacob was a pioneer in the study of German philology , and although Wilhelm 's work was hampered by poor health the brothers collaborated in the creation of a German dictionary , not completed until a century after their deaths .
But they were best ( and universally ) known for the collection of over two hundred folk tales they made from oral sources and published in two volumes of ' Nursery and Household Tales ' in 1812 and 1814 .
Although their intention was to preserve such material as part of German cultural and literary history , and their collection was first published with scholarly notes and no illustration , the tales soon came into the possession of young readers .
This was in part due to Edgar Taylor , who made the first English translation in 1823 , selecting about fifty stories ' with the amusement of some young friends principally in view . '
They have been an essential ingredient of children 's reading ever since .
Good MOR ... Soraya ?
Soraya ?
Oh Lord ! ! !
Soraya !
God please help , God please ! ! !
Somebody ! ! ! !
Somebody please help ! ! !
" Dios , no me hagas esto ! ! ! ! ! "
Soraya , My Four - Year - Old Daughter ...
This is her story ... As a mother , the only thing you want for your children are to be safe and happy .
Question is ; what would happen if it was out of your hands ?
What if you really could n't do anything ?
What if it was n't up to you ?
I am Angela , Mother of Five lovely girls ... Who would 've thought this would ever happen ?
A life changing moment ... Puerto Rico ... On October 27 , 2014 our lives changed forever .
That morning was one of the worst mornings of my life .
Waking up to the same routine everyday taking care of your babies and making sure they were as comfortable as possible .
That morning my routine as a normal mom was died ... 7:00am As I walked into my daughter 's room I see my middle daughter with such an expression of worry in her face .
When I look to my right I see my other daughter Soraya foaming , nose flaring , chest retracting , white as a paper .
I screamed out loud reaching for my phone to call 911 .
I picked up Soraya not knowing what happened to her , calling her name to see if she would answer me .
Nothing ...
I called my husband and the only thing I screamed was " Soraya " on the phone , he dropped the phone and left his job .
I ran outside yelling for help as my little ones followed behind me crying .
God !
Save her !
I screamed angrily looking up at the sky .
Time and time was passing and no sound of the ambulance .
At the time I had no knowledge of emergency resuscitation .
The only one I kept asking for help was God .
" God where are you ! ?
Save her now what are you doing ? "
Half hour later I hear the ambulance and a car rushing at the same time .
The paramedics ran inside the house and took my Soraya to the ambulance .
I rushed with all the babies at the same time and thankfully my husband Bruce came to the rescue .
Bruce took all the babies back to the house while I left with Soraya in the ambulance .
The only thing I remember doing was screaming at people in the highway to hurry up .
The paramedic was trying to calm me down by saying everything was going to be ok .
I can honestly tell you the only thing I heard in my head was my baby crying .
As soon as we arrived at the hospital they rushed Soraya into the emergency room .
As a mother the only thing you want to do is stay with your child always , but the staff did n't let me .
Why ?
I screamed ! ! !
No answer ... the security guard pushed me back to the point he forcibly sat me down .
Please ! ! !
Let me see my baby ! ! !
God please what is going on ! ?
The security guards holding me back from the door .
The only thing from that man 's mouth was the words " calm down . "
Calm down ? ? ?
I exclaimed .
What do you mean calm down ?
You wo n't let me see my daughter !
A half hour passed , and I was still held back in that waiting room .
Three police officers came in and asked questions , making me feel like such a criminal .
I was feeling horrible and harassed .
The thought of them wasting my time felt disgusting .
As soon as they turned their back , I ran towards the emergency room door .
The security guard grabbed me by the arm and sat me down .
" You can not go in . "
I prayed all the time sitting in that chair .
The waiting room was filled with more than 50 people .
My face was puffy , my eyes hurt from all the crying and tears flowing down my face .
Covering my face I suddenly feel a warm hand touch my shoulder .
" She will be fine , trust in him " they said .
I looked up at this older looking man with a badge that read " God 's angel . "
I explained what was going on ...
The man walked over to the security guard and asked him to let me in and see my daughter .
I do not know what possessed that guard to finally let me in .
When they opened the doors I see more than 10 nurses and 5 Doctors surrounding room # 2 .
The angel walked me toward the room and asked them to please let me stand beside her .
One of the doctors walked out of the room and said he needed to talk to me .
Without any sensitivity at all he said " Your daughter is in mechanical ventilation , we are doing our best right now . "
My knees dropped to the floor , shocked at what he just said .
The angel helped me up and walked me towards the waiting room .
My heart was destroyed ... my baby is suffering I screamed .
I called Bruce and explained what was happening .
He was destroyed , not wanting to hang up .
9:45am I heard my name being called in the intercom and ran towards the doors .
The doctor 's walked me over to a small room at the end of the hall .
I decided to keep standing as everyone sat down .
" We finally stabilized her , but you need to be strong . "
My heart and mind filled with so many questions .
They finally let me see my Soraya , As soon as they opened that door I fell to the floor with a silent scream of pain in my heart .
My eyes filled with tears and my body weakened .
My Soraya was intubated , she had so many unexplained cables all over .
I got up and rushed towards her .
God , why ... Why did you have to do this ?
My heart hurt so much I hated the world and everyone in it .
I tried finding a way to hug Soraya but there were so many things on her I just did n't know what to do .
The doctors finally came in the room and spoke about seizures , HIE and what not .
I just could n't believe anything that was going on , I was in denial .
The next day my mother was to arrive from Florida .
All that time she did n't leave my side .
At no time did I want to go back home either , I just did n't want to leave Soraya alone .
That same night my other little one ended up in the emergency room with an emotional fever .
She was the one whom had seen Soraya have that seizure .
I was running from the third floor , back down to the ICU until my middle child was discharged .
Thank God , she was doing fine afterwards .
Days were passing , and doctors could n't give me any answers .
I did n't quit asking them .
I did n't miss a day without questioning .
I was determined to find out .
November 17 , 2014 Early Morning Three doctors walked in and asked to speak to me in the conference room .
The faces they had told me they had something very important to tell me or ask me .
" Mom , we are truly sorry for all the horrible treatments and the way we treated you , you deserve to know what your daughter has but we just do n't know . "
My face dropped .
I felt a small sense of peace in my heart .
These doctors had made me feel as If had hurt my baby .
The feeling I felt was horrible , the most atrocious feeling any human being can feel .
As they kept on speaking they started a new topic .
" Mom , are you ready to save your daughter 's life every day ? "
My heart skipped a beat for a minute .
" Of Course , " I responded .
They all looked at each other and asked me if I had any questions .
I have so many uncountable questions , I was beginning to think it was a joke question .
" You do know your daughter will need plenty of medical equipment and you will need to have a specific care for her . "
I know .
I said .
As soon as I answered they decided to come out with the real topic of this conversation .
Tracheostomy and Gastrostomy .
What is that ?
I asked .
The only thing they gave me was some pamphlets explaining what they wanted to do to my baby .
I guess they thought I would n't read it through .
I did .
Of course I did .
That afternoon Bruce walks in .
We had to leave our other babies with my grandmother for the time being .
It was such a heartbreaker for me not being able to be with all my children .
The only thing my husband did was hug me , not asking questions .
I spoke to him about what was really going on .
As scared as we were for our Soraya we decided to accept it , to save her life .
Nothing was going to stop us now .
November 18 , 2014 Today was the day our Soraya was going to get a Tracheostomy and a Gastrostomy ... Once again my heart sank as they were getting her prepared to transfer her to the operation room .
I stopped them for a minute , I put my hand in her forehead and prayed .
God , only you know what 's best for her .
Take care of her please .
I beg you with all my heart .
Thank you , Lord in your name ... Amen !
I walked to the OR with my mother and waited for my Soraya to catch up .
As soon as I see her crib entering the OR I see three angels at the end of her crib with long wings and beautiful white gowns .
I thought I was dreaming ...
I looked at my mother and said : " Soraya will be fine . "
My mother smiled and said : " Yes she will . "
We waited for an hour and saw my Soraya come out .
I thanked God at that moment for taking care of her through it all .
I looked at my baby wearing these brand - new devices .
Lord , what is this ?
What are we going to do now ?
How are we going to take care of her ?
That month must have been the longest month of my life .
Family members were coming in and out of the hospital visiting .
Many people from different churches came by to pray , sing , and visit .
What great people !
To wherever they are now I send them all the blessings from my heart .
December 1 , 2014 Soraya was finally transferred to a normal hospital room .
No more ICU .
Thank you Lord .
I was very happy to see my baby was feeling a little better .
When we got transferred upstairs , she was doing better each day with the trach and g - tube .
Soraya was on plenty medication and a lot of care was needed such as suctioning , bathing and everything you can think of .
She is 100 % dependent and non - ambulatory .
I bathed her everyday and was given the chance to start giving her the medication through her G - tube .
Something was still not feeling right , I was very scared and worried at how I was going to handle all these medication on my own .
Sadly , Puerto Rico 's health system was not doing so well to have a special needs child there .
I was raised in the Connecticut USA and I wanted my baby to be seen by doctors over there .
Especially seeing all the care and medication she needed .
I started emailing , calling and writing to many foundations in the United States .
I must have contacted over 200 foundations .
It was said I needed $ 30,000 to cover an air ambulance for my baby to travel to Boston .
I finally contacted the Children 's Hospital in Boston , they asked me to gather the paperwork and money to get her transferred right away .
I did .
I asked the doctors to please refer my baby to that hospital .
" NO . "
was their response .
" What is in the United States that we do n't already have here ? "
she asked .
" Many things , " I responded .
The care my daughter is receiving here is not as I expected .
My husband was the one that was buying all the diapers she needed in the hospital .
We had to supply bedding and much more .
I needed answers and referrals .
I am losing time I thought .
February 3 , 2015 Today was the 1st day my baby was finally ready to go home .
My husband and I were very scared to bring her home , we did n't know how to take care of her with all the medical equipment and medications she was using .
No training , nothing .
Hours before the discharge my husband had everything set at home with all the medical equipment they dropped off .
Bruce looked up all the medical equipment manuals and put everything in place by himself .
Back at the hospital I was getting everything of Soraya 's ready .
The doctors just said these words ... " Mom , you 're ready to go home , take care of her . "
My face dropped as they spoke .
My legs were shaky , my heart was racing , I just did n't feel good !
The nurses came in and gave me a whole bunch of prescriptions for meds .
I asked them if they would give me enough to go home with .
One of them actually came through for us and said she was n't supposed to do that but she helped us out to begin with Soraya 's care until we got the prescriptions filled .
That afternoon Soraya and I finally arrived home .
It felt weird going back home with her .
Coming back home , looking at how nice my husband and his sister had left it for us to come back .
It felt good , finally home .
my only thought was my babies can all come back .
Or so we thought .
6:00pm That evening , I will never forget it .
Bruce and I were studying different types of feeding pumps , tracheostomy care and much more online .
We would help each other study and learn the care that Soraya needed .
Suddenly , we hear her Pulse - oximeter machine go off with all the alarms .
As we ran back to her room Soraya starts throwing up by mouth , nose and trach !
Bruce and I rushed to help her by putting her on her side suctioning mouth , nose and trach .
At the same time Bruce was calling 911 ...
Remember we did n't know how to stop what was happening to her .
I screamed loudly : " God please do n't take her ! ! ! ! "
At that moment we see the numbers on her pulse - oximeter get back to 100 saturations from 50 .
The paramedics had arrived and took us back to the hospital .
I come to find out that what happened to my Soraya was a withdrawal from one of the medications they tried weening her off from .
We spent another month in the hospital , and this time , I made sure we had everything we needed before a discharge .
I was determined to keep forcing myself to learn more and more about my baby 's conditions .
March 7 , 2015 Today , another discharge day .
By this time , I had already learned how to do trach tie care changes .
Once again , we were worried bringing her back home due to what had happened last time .
Bruce and I learned the little that we knew by studying and looking at nurses do their job .
Arrival .
Back home we were doing great .
We decided to keep going with the whole USA transfer .
I finally contacted Boston hospital again , they asked me for referrals and many more documents .
I spoke to them and explained what was going on .
After hearing what I had to say they asked me for her medical record .
I did n't have it .
Supposedly we had to wait 14 days after the discharge date in order to obtain it .
After the 14 day rule we decided to go back and request it .
The hospital did not want to give us any medical records .
We were without it for a month going back and forth with them .
We got tired of their excuses and decided to contact the news .
We spoke to the reporter and asked to be in the 5 O ' clock news demanding the medical record and explaining Soraya 's situation .
As mad as we were , we poured our hearts out in television and made the hospital respond to our petition .
They did .
Two days later they brought it to our house themselves .
That man .
A well suited 50 yr . old man walked through my door smelling like whisky holding my daughter 's medical record .
" This will not happen again . "
He stated .
Hopefully not .
we responded .
The news had helped us create a funding page to raise money for our daughter 's trip .
Problem was ... the baby 's insurance was not able to cover half of Soraya 's medical needs .
She needed caterers , gloves , gauzes , clothes , etc .
etc .
etc .
Bruce and I had to plan and quick ... May 20 , 2015 I was looking through Puerto Rico 's government offices that would help me cover Soraya 's flight , not one day did I give up the information searching .
I found an agency that is meant to help families in those situations .
That week I decided to go to that office and orient myself .
The lady was one of these elegant ladies .
" May I help you ? "
she asked .
I need to transfer my daughter out to the United States to a hospital in Boston .
She looked at me oddly and said : " What do you want me to do ? "
Please help me , help my daughter .
" Do you have doctor referrals ? "
No .
" Then I can not help you . "
Please , this is for my baby , I need your help and I know you can help me .
" Sorry , you need the right paperwork and it would take months . "
I know you can help me ...
I will let you know right now that I will not give up !
I exclaimed .
" Sorry , but you will be wasting your time . "
She answered .
I will come to your office each day and beg you to help me .
I responded .
" Go right ahead . "
She answered .
As I walked out of her office I had such a strong feeling in my heart .
That feeling that I knew I was going to accomplish my goal .
I had walked back to that lady each time I could just to make sure she knew I was there .
I was not giving up .
June 2015 Bruce and I were suffering each day trying to figure out what we were going to do for our Soraya .
I was still walking back and forth to that lady 's office and I kept telling her I was not going to give up .
She just kept ignoring the situation .
I walked through a circle of offices I had seen online and found a press office .
As I walked in I received the weirdest looks .
A tanned , slimmed woman called me into her office ... " What can I help you with today ? "
she asked .
Hello , my name is Angela and I am here seeking help to get my baby out to the United States .
" What do you want me to do ? "
she asked .
I just want to get my baby out of here , I want to know if by any chance you know of any help that is available .
She opened her eyes big and started mocking the situation .
" There is no money here , I do n't even know why you 're here . "
I am not asking you for money , I am asking you for information on how I can transfer her to Boston .
She has HIE and is non - ambulatory .
" I honestly do n't know why you 're wasting your time , your daughter 's brain cells are already dead . "
My heart sank .
I took a deep breath and stood up .
Thank you , I answered .
I got up slowly and walked out of her office with my head held up high .
" I will never quit , " I thought to myself .
June 10 , 2015 What a day , my other two girls are leaving with their father in Florida , also Soraya 's biological father .
I feel so hurt they 're leaving and I still could n't resolve anything for Soraya .
After this day I spent my days crying because I wanted my girls altogether .
I want my family back !
Back home it was only Bruce , myself , and the other three girls .
My nine - year - old would look into my eyes and sing songs to me .
She felt something was wrong .
She smiled and gave me the most comforting hug ever .
June 12 , 2015 12:00pm After a long day , I sat in the porch as Bruce was taking care of Soraya in the room .
He would give me breaks here and there .
How I love that man ... such a great father to Soraya , such a wonderful role model to all his daughters .
Best of all , the best friend I never had , the one I can now call my husband .
Daydream over ... My phone rings ... Hello ?
" Hello Angela , this is Roxie from the CF office . "
Yes !
Yes !
Is everything ok ?
" Well I have good news and I have bad news . "
Any news is fine right now Roxie .
" Ok , good news is I can have your daughter transferred to Philadelphia hospital for Children 's , flight will be 100 % covered " What ! ?
I screamed ... but .
" Now the bad news is ... you would have to find me a residential address for me to transfer your daughter ...
I need an answer by 1 pm today . "
Roxie , I do n't know anyone in Philadelphia .
" One hour . "
She responded .
I got up from my chair and started walking around back and forth .
I asked God to show me the light at that moment .
Please help me Lord .
I looked through my phone and found some numbers from aunts and uncles .
I decided to call a Pastor from my father 's side .
The Pastor gave me a number to another Pastor and that Pastor to another until I finally spoke to Pastor Rose .
Hello Pastor Rose , my name is Angela .
I need your help .
I need to find a place for my daughter and I in Philadelphia in order for her to receive better care in a good hospital .
" Hello Angela , my wife will speak to you in a minute . "
Ok , thank you .
I responded .
................................................ " Angela , hello this is Eve I am the Pastor Rose 's wife . "
Hello Eve .
I am hoping your husband spoke to you about my situation ?
" Yes , and we have a room for you here in our home for you and your baby , just let me know what you need in it . "
She asked .
Seriously ? ! ! !
Thank You ! ! !
Oh my God thank you !
I screamed .
As soon as I hung up with the Pastor 's wife , Roxie calls back .
" Your answer please ? "
I have the address for you Roxie .
" Great , you will be leaving today at 6:00pm , and Angela ? "
Yes ?
" There is always a light at the end of the tunnel , Good luck you 're a great mother . "
She responded ( My eyes watered ... ) Thank You Roxie !
I remember running towards the room where Soraya and Bruce were .
Bruce !
Soraya and I are leaving at 6:00pm today !
Bruce 's face enlightened , he started crying of happiness not being able to speak he held his head up and said , " Let 's Pray . "
We both kneeled in front of Soraya 's crib and thanked the Lord for everything he had done for us that day .
6:00pm The time has come !
Time for Soraya and I to get transferred !
Bruce and I were so happy to see everything come into place .
I hugged , kissed and blessed the girls that had to stay with Bruce .
Bruce and I hugged and kissed .
I left all my belongings and brought only what belonged to Soraya .
No time for anything I thought .
I took all three big binders and every paper I had stored for my Soraya .
We finally arrived at the airport , they prepared Soraya for the 6 - hour flight towards Philadelphia .
We had stopped at Fort Lauderdale for a break and a change in pilots .
As soon as the pilots changed and all was well we kept going on our journey .
I was always looking at Soraya throughout the whole trip scared something would happen to her .
2:00am Philadelphia , PA Arriving at the Pastor 's house was one of the most emotional moments .
The only thing I saw as soon as I got out of the ambulance was a nice looking couple holding hands .
I considered them my angels .
They helped us in the house and brought us up to this nice air - conditioned room ready for my Soraya .
I organized all the medical equipment and laid Soraya down on the bed to rest .
What a day .
Eve helped me with everything that I needed , she even had a nice cup of coffee for me .
She noticed I arrived with a fever due to the stress of the flight .
She decided to make me a shrimp soup in less than half hour .
I was up all night with Soraya making sure she was fine with meds and everything she needed .
The next night , I feel my Soraya warm to the touch .
I took her temp and found that she had a fever .
We called 911 and made it to the nearest hospital .
1st Hospital stay At the hospital I see that doctors are asking many questions and trying to figure out their new patient .
Thank God I had all the medical records for Soraya .
The doctors started making changes to Soraya 's care and even changed the type of Trach and G - tube .
The equipment Soraya was using was literally from 10 years ago according to these doctors .
There was a positive change already .
They were very surprised at how much I knew of Soraya 's care .
At the breaks I would call Bruce and update him on everything .
He was very happy ! ! !
At the time I started seeking different types of help and applied for them .
I was approved and kept moving up little by little .
Social workers and case managers were very happy to see how I managed .
While Soraya was still admitted I stayed at the McDuff 's house .
What a great help .
I was feeling rested and ready to take on another day .
A week later Bruce and little Glen came over to Philadelphia and stayed at the McDuff 's house too .
Soraya was admitted for over two months before we were discharged .
We finally found a place to stay with a friend and I will always thank them for sheltering my family .
Soraya could not be discharged anywhere but to a facility where we had to complete our training .
It took us 6 months to finish our training , not missing a day .
We would walk two hours to get there .
It was well worth it .
Bruce and I finally met our goal of doing a 24 hour shift in order to conclude our training .
Thank God Bruce 's parents were there to help us out with little Glen .
His parents stayed for two weeks and made sure we were fine for them to return to Puerto Rico .
We were ready , we had finally saved enough to rent a house , big and perfect enough to bring our Soraya home from that facility .
There was a catch though ... for us to bring Soraya home we had to get the house inspected and have the electricity checked .
It took us more time because the house did n't pass .
Good thing was that they managed to fix it .
Our next goal was to fight with this facility to let go of our child .
They did n't care , they wanted to keep her there .
Why ?
I guess they considered my baby a dollar sign .
We made sure we finished our training , the 24 - hour shift and everything we had to do .
What was the excuse now ?
They had none ... they had to let her go home ... if not , I was going to sleep there until they did .
December 9 , 2015 Soraya came home ...
Nursing , medication orders , medical equipment orders and much more ... check .
Goal accomplished ... 2 years later ... Today ... December 5 , 2017 Today is the day I finish telling you my daughter 's story ...
I am here typing it next to her medical bed in a hospital , she is such a strong girl .
As much as everyone admires my husband and I , we admire how far SHE has come .
Our family has gone through a lot yes , but this day I am happy to say my girls are together once again .
We will protect them with all our heart and use the sharpest claws you can imagine .
We will keep them happy .
People have asked questions and have also assumed .
Only God knows what he has in store for us and why he wanted us to take care of one of his angels .
Ladies and Gentlemen , this is such an honor for me , to be able to take care of an angel and do God 's work each day .
Yes , we do get physically and mentally tired .
Yes , we would like to do more things .
Yes , it is scary at times .
Yes , we must keep learning more every day .
Yes , we feel lonely at times .
Yes , we know how hard it is .
Yes , we go in and out of hospitals .
Yes , we do get annoyed when people do n't understand the situation .
Yes , we work hard to keep our family happy and satisfied .
Yes , we must run every time our child De - saturates .
Yes , we have rules and papers hanging everywhere .
Yes , we fight and make sure our child receives the services she needs .
Yes , we have medical bags ready for each member of the family .
Yes , we must plan a trip to a supermarket .
Yes , we appreciate life and we learned what it means to never take anything for granted .
Yes , to everything you ask .
We are special needs parents , but we are also normal parents of 4 other healthy girls .
All of them have different needs and us as parents we need to be there for them , no matter how hard it can be .
Every day I read about how we can always make things better .
I must have changed Soraya 's logs like 200 times .
I love what I do because it is helping our baby .
God has bigger plans for us and we need to get ready for when they start .
The best feeling in the world is looking at your child in the eyes and see how they glitter looking back at you .
Our children look up to us , it is our job to make that transition work for them .
If there is a day you feel like you have failed , think back to what you are reading and think that if we did it ... you can do it too .
Hope each one of you reading this find your way and live life .
Forgive and forget ... Never let hate run your life .
We have the best thing the Lord has blessed us with .
Let 's take care of one selves and keep going .
Accomplish your goals .
You can do it ... Now off to study more on Soraya 's care .
We learn something new each and every day ... Parents : Do not give up , no matter what people say .
Remember , nobody will think of you and your necessities , only you can fight for your family .
Thank you , Lord .
If it was good enough for your grandfather , forget it ... it is much too good for anyone else !
Gramps Ford , his chin resting on his hands , his hands on the crook of his cane , was staring irascibly at the five - foot television screen that dominated the room .
On the screen , a news commentator was summarizing the day 's happenings .
Every thirty seconds or so , Gramps would jab the floor with his cane - tip and shout , " Hell , we did that a hundred years ago ! "
Emerald and Lou , coming in from the balcony , where they had been seeking that 2185 A.D. rarity - privacy - were obliged to take seats in the back row , behind Lou 's father and mother , brother and sister - in - law , son and daughter - in - law , grandson and wife , granddaughter and husband , great - grandson and wife , nephew and wife , grandnephew and wife , great - grandniece and husband , great - grandnephew and wife - and , of course , Gramps , who was in front of everybody .
All save Gramps , who was somewhat withered and bent , seemed , by pre - anti - gerasone standards , to be about the same age - somewhere in their late twenties or early thirties .
Gramps looked older because he had already reached 70 when anti - gerasone was invented .
He had not aged in the 102 years since .
" Meanwhile , " the commentator was saying , " Council Bluffs , Iowa , was still threatened by stark tragedy .
But 200 weary rescue workers have refused to give up hope , and continue to dig in an effort to save Elbert Haggedorn , 183 , who has been wedged for two days in a ... " " I wish he 'd get something more cheerful , " Emerald whispered to Lou .
" Silence ! "
cried Gramps .
" Next one shoots off his big bazoo while the TV 's on is gon na find hisself cut off without a dollar - " his voice suddenly softened and sweetened - " when they wave that checkered flag at the Indianapolis Speedway , and old Gramps gets ready for the Big Trip Up Yonder . "
He sniffed sentimentally , while his heirs concentrated desperately on not making the slightest sound .
For them , the poignancy of the prospective Big Trip had been dulled somewhat , through having been mentioned by Gramps about once a day for fifty years .
" Dr. Brainard Keyes Bullard , " continued the commentator , " President of Wyandotte College , said in an address tonight that most of the world 's ills can be traced to the fact that Man 's knowledge of himself has not kept pace with his knowledge of the physical world . "
" Hell ! "
snorted Gramps .
" We said that a hundred years ago ! "
" In Chicago tonight , " the commentator went on , " a special celebration is taking place in the Chicago Lying - in Hospital .
The guest of honor is Lowell W. Hitz , age zero .
Hitz , born this morning , is the twenty - five - millionth child to be born in the hospital . "
The commentator faded , and was replaced on the screen by young Hitz , who squalled furiously .
" Hell ! "
whispered Lou to Emerald .
" We said that a hundred years ago . "
" I heard that ! "
shouted Gramps .
He snapped off the television set and his petrified descendants stared silently at the screen .
" You , there , boy - " " I did n't mean anything by it , sir , " said Lou , aged 103 .
" Get me my will .
You know where it is .
You kids all know where it is .
Fetch , boy ! "
Gramps snapped his gnarled fingers sharply .
Lou nodded dully and found himself going down the hall , picking his way over bedding to Gramps ' room , the only private room in the Ford apartment .
The other rooms were the bathroom , the living room and the wide windowless hallway , which was originally intended to serve as a dining area , and which had a kitchenette in one end .
Six mattresses and four sleeping bags were dispersed in the hallway and living room , and the daybed , in the living room , accommodated the eleventh couple , the favorites of the moment .
On Gramps ' bureau was his will , smeared , dog - eared , perforated and blotched with hundreds of additions , deletions , accusations , conditions , warnings , advice and homely philosophy .
The document was , Lou reflected , a fifty - year diary , all jammed onto two sheets - a garbled , illegible log of day after day of strife .
This day , Lou would be disinherited for the eleventh time , and it would take him perhaps six months of impeccable behavior to regain the promise of a share in the estate .
To say nothing of the daybed in the living room for Em and himself .
" Boy ! "
called Gramps .
" Coming , sir . "
Lou hurried back into the living room and handed Gramps the will .
" Pen ! "
said Gramps .
He was instantly offered eleven pens , one from each couple .
" Not that leaky thing , " he said , brushing Lou 's pen aside .
" Ah , there 's a nice one .
Good boy , Willy . "
He accepted Willy 's pen .
That was the tip they had all been waiting for .
Willy , then - Lou 's father - was the new favorite .
Willy , who looked almost as young as Lou , though he was 142 , did a poor job of concealing his pleasure .
He glanced shyly at the daybed , which would become his , and from which Lou and Emerald would have to move back into the hall , back to the worst spot of all by the bathroom door .
Gramps missed none of the high drama he had authored and he gave his own familiar role everything he had .
Frowning and running his finger along each line , as though he were seeing the will for the first time , he read aloud in a deep portentous monotone , like a bass note on a cathedral organ .
[ Illustration ] " I , Harold D. Ford , residing in Building 257 of Alden Village , New York City , Connecticut , do hereby make , publish and declare this to be my last Will and Testament , revoking any and all former wills and codicils by me at any time heretofore made . "
He blew his nose importantly and went on , not missing a word , and repeating many for emphasis - repeating in particular his ever - more - elaborate specifications for a funeral .
At the end of these specifications , Gramps was so choked with emotion that Lou thought he might have forgotten why he 'd brought out the will in the first place .
But Gramps heroically brought his powerful emotions under control and , after erasing for a full minute , began to write and speak at the same time .
Lou could have spoken his lines for him , he had heard them so often .
" I have had many heartbreaks ere leaving this vale of tears for a better land , " Gramps said and wrote .
" But the deepest hurt of all has been dealt me by - " He looked around the group , trying to remember who the malefactor was .
Everyone looked helpfully at Lou , who held up his hand resignedly .
Gramps nodded , remembering , and completed the sentence - " my great - grandson , Louis J.
Ford . "
" Grandson , sir , " said Lou .
" Do n't quibble .
You 're in deep enough now , young man , " said Gramps , but he made the change .
And , from there , he went without a misstep through the phrasing of the disinheritance , causes for which were disrespectfulness and quibbling .
In the paragraph following , the paragraph that had belonged to everyone in the room at one time or another , Lou 's name was scratched out and Willy 's substituted as heir to the apartment and , the biggest plum of all , the double bed in the private bedroom .
" So ! "
said Gramps , beaming .
He erased the date at the foot of the will and substituted a new one , including the time of day .
" Well - time to watch the McGarvey Family . "
The McGarvey Family was a television serial that Gramps had been following since he was 60 , or for a total of 112 years .
" I ca n't wait to see what 's going to happen next , " he said .
Lou detached himself from the group and lay down on his bed of pain by the bathroom door .
Wishing Em would join him , he wondered where she was .
He dozed for a few moments , until he was disturbed by someone stepping over him to get into the bathroom .
A moment later , he heard a faint gurgling sound , as though something were being poured down the washbasin drain .
Suddenly , it entered his mind that Em had cracked up , that she was in there doing something drastic about Gramps .
" Em ? "
he whispered through the panel .
There was no reply , and Lou pressed against the door .
The worn lock , whose bolt barely engaged its socket , held for a second , then let the door swing inward .
" Morty ! "
gasped Lou .
Lou 's great - grandnephew , Mortimer , who had just married and brought his wife home to the Ford menage , looked at Lou with consternation and surprise .
Morty kicked the door shut , but not before Lou had glimpsed what was in his hand - Gramps ' enormous economy - size bottle of anti - gerasone , which had apparently been half - emptied , and which Morty was refilling with tap water .
A moment later , Morty came out , glared defiantly at Lou and brushed past him wordlessly to rejoin his pretty bride .
Shocked , Lou did n't know what to do .
He could n't let Gramps take the mousetrapped anti - gerasone - but , if he warned Gramps about it , Gramps would certainly make life in the apartment , which was merely insufferable now , harrowing .
Lou glanced into the living room and saw that the Fords , Emerald among them , were momentarily at rest , relishing the botches that the McGarveys had made of their lives .
Stealthily , he went into the bathroom , locked the door as well as he could and began to pour the contents of Gramps ' bottle down the drain .
He was going to refill it with full - strength anti - gerasone from the 22 smaller bottles on the shelf .
The bottle contained a half - gallon , and its neck was small , so it seemed to Lou that the emptying would take forever .
And the almost imperceptible smell of anti - gerasone , like Worcestershire sauce , now seemed to Lou , in his nervousness , to be pouring out into the rest of the apartment , through the keyhole and under the door .
The bottle gurgled monotonously .
Suddenly , up came the sound of music from the living room and there were murmurs and the scraping of chair - legs on the floor .
" Thus ends , " said the television announcer , " the 29,121st chapter in the life of your neighbors and mine , the McGarveys . "
Footsteps were coming down the hall .
There was a knock on the bathroom door .
" Just a sec , " Lou cheerily called out .
Desperately , he shook the big bottle , trying to speed up the flow .
His palms slipped on the wet glass , and the heavy bottle smashed on the tile floor .
The door was pushed open , and Gramps , dumbfounded , stared at the incriminating mess .
Lou felt a hideous prickling sensation on his scalp and the back of his neck .
He grinned engagingly through his nausea and , for want of anything remotely resembling a thought , waited for Gramps to speak .
" Well , boy , " said Gramps at last , " looks like you 've got a little tidying up to do . "
And that was all he said .
He turned around , elbowed his way through the crowd and locked himself in his bedroom .
The Fords contemplated Lou in incredulous silence a moment longer , and then hurried back to the living room , as though some of his horrible guilt would taint them , too , if they looked too long .
Morty stayed behind long enough to give Lou a quizzical , annoyed glance .
Then he also went into the living room , leaving only Emerald standing in the doorway .
Tears streamed over her cheeks .
" Oh , you poor lamb - please do n't look so awful !
It was my fault .
I put you up to this with my nagging about Gramps . "
" No , " said Lou , finding his voice , " really you did n't .
Honest , Em , I was just - " " You do n't have to explain anything to me , hon .
I 'm on your side , no matter what . "
She kissed him on one cheek and whispered in his ear , " It would n't have been murder , hon .
It would n't have killed him .
It was n't such a terrible thing to do .
It just would have fixed him up so he 'd be able to go any time God decided He wanted him . "
" What 's going to happen next , Em ? "
said Lou hollowly .
" What 's he going to do ? "
Lou and Emerald stayed fearfully awake almost all night , waiting to see what Gramps was going to do .
But not a sound came from the sacred bedroom .
Two hours before dawn , they finally dropped off to sleep .
At six o'clock , they arose again , for it was time for their generation to eat breakfast in the kitchenette .
No one spoke to them .
They had twenty minutes in which to eat , but their reflexes were so dulled by the bad night that they had hardly swallowed two mouthfuls of egg - type processed seaweed before it was time to surrender their places to their son 's generation .
Then , as was the custom for whoever had been most recently disinherited , they began preparing Gramps ' breakfast , which would presently be served to him in bed , on a tray .
They tried to be cheerful about it .
The toughest part of the job was having to handle the honest - to - God eggs and bacon and oleomargarine , on which Gramps spent so much of the income from his fortune .
" Well , " said Emerald , " I 'm not going to get all panicky until I 'm sure there 's something to be panicky about . "
" Maybe he does n't know what it was I busted , " Lou said hopefully .
" Probably thinks it was your watch crystal , " offered Eddie , their son , who was toying apathetically with his buckwheat - type processed sawdust cakes .
" Do n't get sarcastic with your father , " said Em , " and do n't talk with your mouth full , either . "
" I 'd like to see anybody take a mouthful of this stuff and not say something , " complained Eddie , who was 73 .
He glanced at the clock .
" It 's time to take Gramps his breakfast , you know . "
" Yeah , it is , is n't it ? "
said Lou weakly .
He shrugged .
" Let 's have the tray , Em . "
" We 'll both go . "
Walking slowly , smiling bravely , they found a large semi - circle of long - faced Fords standing around the bedroom door .
Em knocked .
" Gramps , " she called brightly , " break - fast is rea - dy . "
There was no reply and she knocked again , harder .
The door swung open before her fist .
In the middle of the room , the soft , deep , wide , canopied bed , the symbol of the sweet by - and - by to every Ford , was empty .
A sense of death , as unfamiliar to the Fords as Zoroastrianism or the causes of the Sepoy Mutiny , stilled every voice , slowed every heart .
Awed , the heirs began to search gingerly , under the furniture and behind the drapes , for all that was mortal of Gramps , father of the clan .
But Gramps had left not his Earthly husk but a note , which Lou finally found on the dresser , under a paperweight which was a treasured souvenir from the World 's Fair of 2000 .
Unsteadily , Lou read it aloud : " ' Somebody who I have sheltered and protected and taught the best I know how all these years last night turned on me like a mad dog and diluted my anti - gerasone , or tried to .
I am no longer a young man .
I can no longer bear the crushing burden of life as I once could .
So , after last night 's bitter experience , I say good - by .
The cares of this world will soon drop away like a cloak of thorns and I shall know peace .
By the time you find this , I will be gone . ' "
" Gosh , " said Willy brokenly , " he did n't even get to see how the 5000 - mile Speedway Race was going to come out . "
" Or the Solar Series , " Eddie said , with large mournful eyes .
" Or whether Mrs. McGarvey got her eyesight back , " added Morty .
" There 's more , " said Lou , and he began reading aloud again : " ' I , Harold D. Ford , etc . , do hereby make , publish and declare this to be my last Will and Testament , revoking any and all former wills and codicils by me at any time heretofore made . ' "
" No ! "
cried Willy .
" Not another one ! "
" ' I do stipulate , ' " read Lou , " ' that all of my property , of whatsoever kind and nature , not be divided , but do devise and bequeath it to be held in common by my issue , without regard for generation , equally , share and share alike . ' "
" Issue ? "
said Emerald .
Lou included the multitude in a sweep of his hand .
" It means we all own the whole damn shootin ' match . "
Each eye turned instantly to the bed .
" Share and share alike ? "
asked Morty .
" Actually , " said Willy , who was the oldest one present , " it 's just like the old system , where the oldest people head up things with their headquarters in here and - " " I like that ! "
exclaimed Em .
" Lou owns as much of it as you do , and I say it ought to be for the oldest one who 's still working .
You can snooze around here all day , waiting for your pension check , while poor Lou stumbles in here after work , all tuckered out , and - " " How about letting somebody who 's never had any privacy get a little crack at it ? "
Eddie demanded hotly .
" Hell , you old people had plenty of privacy back when you were kids .
I was born and raised in the middle of that goddamn barracks in the hall !
How about - " " Yeah ? "
challenged Morty .
" Sure , you 've all had it pretty tough , and my heart bleeds for you .
But try honeymooning in the hall for a real kick . "
" Silence ! "
shouted Willy imperiously .
" The next person who opens his mouth spends the next sixth months by the bathroom .
Now clear out of my room .
I want to think . "
A vase shattered against the wall , inches above his head .
In the next moment , a free - for - all was under way , with each couple battling to eject every other couple from the room .
Fighting coalitions formed and dissolved with the lightning changes of the tactical situation .
Em and Lou were thrown into the hall , where they organized others in the same situation , and stormed back into the room .
After two hours of struggle , with nothing like a decision in sight , the cops broke in , followed by television cameramen from mobile units .
For the next half - hour , patrol wagons and ambulances hauled away Fords , and then the apartment was still and spacious .
An hour later , films of the last stages of the riot were being televised to 500,000,000 delighted viewers on the Eastern Seaboard .
In the stillness of the three - room Ford apartment on the 76th floor of Building 257 , the television set had been left on .
Once more the air was filled with the cries and grunts and crashes of the fray , coming harmlessly now from the loudspeaker .
The battle also appeared on the screen of the television set in the police station , where the Fords and their captors watched with professional interest .
Em and Lou , in adjacent four - by - eight cells , were stretched out peacefully on their cots .
" Em , " called Lou through the partition , " you got a washbasin all your own , too ? "
" Sure .
Washbasin , bed , light - the works .
And we thought Gramps ' room was something .
How long has this been going on ? "
She held out her hand .
" For the first time in forty years , hon , I have n't got the shakes - look at me ! "
" Cross your fingers , " said Lou .
" The lawyer 's going to try to get us a year . "
" Gee ! "
Em said dreamily .
" I wonder what kind of wires you 'd have to pull to get put away in solitary ? "
" All right , pipe down , " said the turnkey , " or I 'll toss the whole kit and caboodle of you right out .
And first one who lets on to anybody outside how good jail is ai n't never getting back in ! "
The prisoners instantly fell silent .
The living room of the apartment darkened for a moment as the riot scenes faded on the television screen , and then the face of the announcer appeared , like the Sun coming from behind a cloud .
" And now , friends , " he said , " I have a special message from the makers of anti - gerasone , a message for all you folks over 150 .
Are you hampered socially by wrinkles , by stiffness of joints and discoloration or loss of hair , all because these things came upon you before anti - gerasone was developed ?
Well , if you are , you need no longer suffer , need no longer feel different and out of things .
" After years of research , medical science has now developed Super - anti - gerasone !
In weeks - yes , weeks - you can look , feel and act as young as your great - great - grandchildren !
Would n't you pay $ 5,000 to be indistinguishable from everybody else ?
Well , you do n't have to .
Safe , tested Super - anti - gerasone costs you only a few dollars a day .
" Write now for your free trial carton .
Just put your name and address on a dollar postcard , and mail it to ' Super , ' Box 500,000 , Schenectady , N. Y.
Have you got that ?
I 'll repeat it . '
Super , ' Box 500,000 ... " Underlining the announcer 's words was the scratching of Gramps ' pen , the one Willy had given him the night before .
He had come in , a few minutes earlier , from the Idle Hour Tavern , which commanded a view of Building 257 from across the square of asphalt known as the Alden Village Green .
He had called a cleaning woman to come straighten the place up , then had hired the best lawyer in town to get his descendants a conviction , a genius who had never gotten a client less than a year and a day .
Gramps had then moved the daybed before the television screen , so that he could watch from a reclining position .
It was something he 'd dreamed of doing for years .
" Schen - ec - ta - dy , " murmured Gramps .
" Got it ! "
His face had changed remarkably .
His facial muscles seemed to have relaxed , revealing kindness and equanimity under what had been taut lines of bad temper .
It was almost as though his trial package of Super - anti - gerasone had already arrived .
When something amused him on television , he smiled easily , rather than barely managing to lengthen the thin line of his mouth a millimeter .
Life was good .
He could hardly wait to see what was going to happen next .
Ludovick Eversole sat in the golden sunshine outside his house , writing a poem as he watched the street flow gently past him .
There were very few people on it , for he lived in a slow part of town , and those who went in for travel generally preferred streets where the pace was quicker .
Moreover , on a sultry spring afternoon like this one , there would be few people wandering abroad .
Most would be lying on sun - kissed white beaches or in sun - drenched parks , or , for those who did not fancy being either kissed or drenched by the sun , basking in the comfort of their own air - conditioned villas .
Some would , like Ludovick , be writing poems ; others composing symphonies ; still others painting pictures .
Those who were without creative talent or the inclination to indulge it would be relaxing their well - kept golden bodies in whatever surroundings they had chosen to spend this particular one of the perfect days that stretched in an unbroken line before every member of the human race from the cradle to the crematorium .
Only the Belphins were much in evidence .
Only the Belphins had duties to perform .
Only the Belphins worked .
Ludovick stretched his own well - kept golden body and rejoiced in the knowing that he was a man and not a Belphin .
Immediately afterward , he was sorry for the heartless thought .
Did n't the Belphins work only to serve humanity ?
How ungrateful , then , it was to gloat over them !
Besides , he comforted himself , probably , if the truth were known , the Belphins liked to work .
He hailed a passing Belphin for assurance on this point .
Courteous , like all members of his species , the creature leaped from the street and listened attentively to the young man 's question .
" We Belphins have but one like and one dislike , " he replied .
" We like what is right and we dislike what is wrong . "
" But how can you tell what is right and what is wrong ? "
Ludovick persisted .
" We know , " the Belphin said , gazing reverently across the city to the blue spire of the tower where The Belphin of Belphins dwelt , in constant communication with every member of his race at all times , or so they said .
" That is why we were placed in charge of humanity .
Someday you , too , may advance to the point where you know , and we shall return whence we came . "
" But who placed you in charge , " Ludovick asked , " and whence did you come ? "
Fearing he might seem motivated by vulgar curiosity , he explained , " I am doing research for an epic poem . "
A lifetime spent under their gentle guardianship had made Ludovick able to interpret the expression that flitted across this Belphin 's frontispiece as a sad , sweet smile .
" We come from beyond the stars , " he said .
Ludovick already knew that ; he had hoped for something a little more specific .
" We were placed in power by those who had the right .
And the power through which we rule is the power of love !
Be happy ! "
And with that conventional farewell ( which also served as a greeting ) , he stepped onto the sidewalk and was borne off .
Ludovick looked after him pensively for a moment , then shrugged .
Why should the Belphins surrender their secrets to gratify the idle curiosity of a poet ?
Ludovick packed his portable scriptwriter in its case and went to call on the girl next door , whom he loved with a deep and intermittently requited passion .
As he passed between the tall columns leading into the Flockhart courtyard , he noted with regret that there were quite a number of Corisande 's relatives present , lying about sunning themselves and sipping beverages which probably touched the legal limit of intoxicatability .
Much as he hated to think harshly of anyone , he did not like Corisande Flockhart 's relatives .
He had never known anybody who had as many relatives as she did , and sometimes he suspected they were not all related to her .
Then he would dismiss the thought as unworthy of him or any right - thinking human being .
He loved Corisande for herself alone and not for her family .
Whether they were actually her family or not was none of his business .
" Be happy ! "
he greeted the assemblage cordially , sitting down beside Corisande on the tessellated pavement .
" Bah ! "
said old Osmond Flockhart , Corisande 's grandfather .
Ludovick was sure that , underneath his crustiness , the gnarled patriarch hid a heart of gold .
Although he had been mining assiduously , the young man had not yet been able to strike that vein ; however , he did not give up hope , for not giving up hope was one of the principles that his wise old Belphin teacher had inculcated in him .
Other principles were to lead the good life and keep healthy .
" Now , Grandfather , " Corisande said , " no matter what your politics , that does not excuse impoliteness . "
Ludovick wished she would not allude so blatantly to politics , because he had a lurking notion that Corisande 's " family " was , in fact , a band of conspirators ... such as still dotted the green and pleasant planet and proved by their existence that Man was not advancing anywhere within measurable distance of that totality of knowledge implied by the Belphin .
You could tell malcontents , even if they did not voice their dissatisfactions , by their faces .
The vast majority of the human race , living good and happy lives , had smooth and pleasant faces .
Malcontents ' faces were lined and sometimes , in extreme cases , furrowed .
Everyone could easily tell who they were by looking at them , and most people avoided them .
It was not that griping was illegal , for the Belphins permitted free speech and reasonable conspiracy ; it was that such behavior was considered ungenteel .
Ludovick would never have dreamed of associating with this set of neighbors , once he had discovered their tendencies , had he not lost his heart to the purple - eyed Corisande at their first meeting .
" Politeness , bah ! "
old Osmond said .
" To see a healthy young man simply - simply accepting the status quo ! "
" If the status quo is a good status quo , " Ludovick said uneasily , for he did not like to discuss such subjects , " why should I not accept it ?
We have everything we could possibly want .
What do we lack ? "
" Our freedom , " Osmond retorted .
" But we are free , " Ludovick said , perplexed .
" We can say what we like , do what we like , so long as it is consonant with the public good . "
" Ah , but who determines what is consonant with the public good ? "
Ludovick could no longer temporize with truth , even for Corisande 's sake .
" Look here , old man , I have read books .
I know about the old days before the Belphins came from the stars .
Men were destroying themselves quickly through wars , or slowly through want .
There is none of that any more . "
" All lies and exaggeration , " old Osmond said . "
My grandfather told me that , when the Belphins took over Earth , they rewrote all the textbooks to suit their own purposes .
Now nothing but Belphin propaganda is taught in the schools . "
" But surely some of what they teach about the past must be true , " Ludovick insisted .
" And today every one of us has enough to eat and drink , a place to live , beautiful garments to wear , and all the time in the world to utilize as he chooses in all sorts of pleasant activities .
What is missing ? "
" They 've taken away our frontiers ! "
Behind his back , Corisande made a little filial face at Ludovick .
Ludovick tried to make the old man see reason .
" But I 'm happy .
And everybody is happy , except - except a few killjoys like you . "
" They certainly did a good job of brainwashing you , boy , " Osmond sighed .
" And of most of the young ones , " he added mournfully .
" With each succeeding generation , more of our heritage is lost . "
He patted the girl 's hand .
" You 're a good girl , Corrie .
You do n't hold with this being cared for like some damn pet poodle . "
" Never mind Osmond , Eversole , " one of Corisande 's alleged uncles grinned .
" He talks a lot , but of course he does n't mean a quarter of what he says .
Come , have some wine . "
He handed a glass to Ludovick .
Ludovick sipped and coughed .
It tasted as if it were well above the legal alcohol limit , but he did n't like to say anything .
They were taking an awful risk , though , doing a thing like that .
If they got caught , they might receive a public scolding - which was , of course , no more than they deserved - but he could not bear to think of Corisande exposed to such an ordeal .
" It 's only reasonable , " the uncle went on , " that older people should have a - a thing about being governed by foreigners . "
Ludovick smiled and set his nearly full glass down on a plinth .
" You could hardly call the Belphins foreigners ; they 've been on Earth longer than even the oldest of us . "
" You seem to be pretty chummy with 'em , " the uncle said , looking narrow - eyed at Ludovick .
" No more so than any other loyal citizen , " Ludovick replied .
The uncle sat up and wrapped his arms around his thick bare legs .
He was a powerful , hairy brute of a creature who had not taken advantage of the numerous cosmetic techniques offered by the benevolent Belphins .
" Do n't you think it 's funny they can breathe our air so easily ? "
" Why should n't they ? "
Ludovick bit into an apple that Corisande handed him from one of the dishes of fruit and other delicacies strewn about the courtyard .
" It 's excellent air , " he continued through a full mouth , " especially now that it 's all purified .
I understand that in the old days - " " Yes , " the uncle said , " but do n't you think it 's a coincidence they breathe exactly the same kind of air we do , considering they claim to come from another solar system ? "
" No coincidence at all , " said Ludovick shortly , no longer able to pretend he did n't know what the other was getting at .
He had heard the ugly rumor before .
Of course sacrilege was not illegal , but it was in bad taste .
" Only one combination of elements spawns intelligent life . "
" They say , " the uncle continued , impervious to Ludovick 's unconcealed dislike for the subject , " that there 's really only one Belphin , who lives in the Blue Tower - in a tank or something , because he ca n't breathe our atmosphere - and that the others are a sort of robot he sends out to do his work for him . "
" Nonsense ! "
Ludovick was goaded to irritation at last .
" How could a robot have that delicate play of expression , that subtle economy of movement ? "
Corisande and the uncle exchanged glances .
" But they are absolutely blank , " the uncle began hesitantly .
" Perhaps , with your rich poetic imagination .... " " See ? "
old Osmond remarked with satisfaction .
" The kid 's brain - washed .
I told you so . "
" Even if The Belphin is a single entity , " Ludovick went on , " that does n't necessarily make him less benevolent - " He was again interrupted by the grandfather .
" I wo n't listen to any more of this twaddle .
Benevolent , bah !
He or she or it or them is or are just plain exploiting us !
Taking our mineral resources away - I 've seen 'em loading ore on the spaceships - and - " " - and exchanging it for other resources from the stars , " Ludovick said tightly , " without which we could not have the perfectly balanced society we have today .
Without which we would be , technologically , back in the dark ages from which they rescued us . "
" It 's not the stuff they bring in from outside that runs this technology , " the uncle said .
" It 's some power they 've got that we ca n't seem to figure out .
Though Lord knows we 've tried , " he added musingly .
" Of course they have their own source of power , " Ludovick informed them , smiling to himself , for his old Belphin teacher had taken great care to instill a sense of humor into him .
" A Belphin was explaining that to me only today . "
Twenty heads swiveled toward him .
He felt uncomfortable , for he was a modest young man and did not like to be the cynosure of all eyes .
" Tell us , dear boy , " the uncle said , grabbing Ludovick 's glass from the plinth and filling it , " what exactly did he say ? "
" He said the Belphins rule through the power of love . "
The glass crashed to the tesserae as the uncle uttered a very unworthy word .
" And I suppose it was love that killed Mieczyslaw and George when they tried to storm the Blue Tower - " old Osmond began , then halted at the looks he was getting from everybody .
Ludovick could no longer pretend his neighbors were a group of eccentrics whom he himself was eccentric enough to regard as charming .
" So ! "
He stood up and wrapped his mantle about him .
" I knew you were against the government , and , of course , you have a legal right to disagree with its policies , but I did n't think you were actual - actual - " he dredged a word up out of his schooldays - " anarchists . "
[ Illustration ] He turned to the girl , who was looking thoughtful as she stroked the glittering jewel that always hung at her neck .
" Corisande , how can you stay with these - " he found another word - " these subversives ? "
She smiled sadly .
" Do n't forget : they 're my family , Ludovick , and I owe them dutiful respect , no matter how pig - headed they are . "
She pressed his hand .
" But do n't give up hope . "
That rang a bell inside his brain .
" I wo n't , " he vowed , giving her hand a return squeeze .
" I promise I wo n't . "
Outside the Flockhart villa , he paused , struggling with his inner self .
It was an unworthy thing to inform upon one 's neighbors ; on the other hand , could he stand idly by and let those neighbors attempt to destroy the social order ?
Deciding that the greater good was the more important - and that , moreover , it was the only way of taking Corisande away from all this - he went in search of a Belphin .
That is , he waited until one glided past and called to him to leave the walk .
" I wish to report a conspiracy at No .
7 Mimosa Lane , " he said .
" The girl is innocent , but the others are in it to the hilt . "
The Belphin appeared to think for a minute .
Then he gave off a smile .
" Oh , them , " he said .
" We know .
They are harmless . "
" Harmless ! "
Ludovick repeated .
" Why , I understand they 've already tried to - to attack the Blue Tower by force ! "
" Quite .
And failed .
For we are protected from hostile forces , as you were told earlier , by the power of love . "
Ludovick knew , of course , that the Belphin used the word love metaphorically , that the Tower was protected by a series of highly efficient barriers of force to repel attackers - barriers which , he realized now , from the sad fate of Mieczyslaw and George , were potentially lethal .
However , he did not blame the Belphin for being so cagy about his race 's source of power , not with people like the Flockharts running about subverting and whatnot .
" You certainly do have a wonderful intercommunication system , " he murmured .
" Everything about us is wonderful , " the Belphin said noncommittally .
" That 's why we 're so good to you people .
Be happy ! "
And he was off .
But Ludovick could not be happy .
He was n't precisely sad yet , but he was thoughtful .
Of course the Belphins knew better than he did , but still .... Perhaps they underestimated the seriousness of the Flockhart conspiracy .
On the other hand , perhaps it was he who was taking the Flockharts too seriously .
Maybe he should investigate further before doing anything rash .
Later that night , he slipped over to the Flockhart villa and nosed about in the courtyard until he found the window behind which the family was conspiring .
He peered through a chink in the curtains , so he could both see and hear .
Corisande was saying , " And so I think there is a lot in what Ludovick said .... " Bless her , he thought emotionally .
Even in the midst of her plotting , she had time to spare a kind word for him .
And then it hit him : she , too , was a plotter .
" You suggest that we try to turn the power of love against the Belphins ? "
the uncle asked ironically .
Corisande gave a rippling laugh as she twirled her glittering pendant .
" In a manner of speaking , " she said .
" I have an idea for a secret weapon which might do the trick - " At that moment , Ludovick stumbled over a jug which some careless relative had apparently left lying about the courtyard .
It crashed to the tesserae , spattering Ludovick 's legs and sandals with a liquid which later proved to be extremely red wine .
" There 's someone outside ! "
the uncle declared , half - rising .
" Nonsense ! "
Corisande said , putting her hand on his shoulder .
" I did n't hear anything . "
The uncle looked dubious , and Ludovick thought it prudent to withdraw at this point .
Besides , he had heard enough .
Corisande - his Corisande - was an integral part of the conspiracy .
He lay down to sleep that night beset by doubts .
If he told the Belphins about the conspiracy , he would be betraying Corisande .
As a matter of fact , he now remembered , he had already told them about the conspiracy and they had n't believed him .
But supposing he could convince them , how could he give Corisande up to them ?
True , it was the right thing to do - but , for the first time in his life , he could not bring himself to do what he knew to be right .
He was weak , weak - and weakness was sinful .
His old Belphin teacher had taught him that , too .
As Ludovick writhed restlessly upon his bed , he became aware that someone had come into his chamber .
" Ludovick , " a soft , beloved voice whispered , " I have come to ask your help .... " It was so dark , he could not see her ; he knew where she was only by the glitter of the jewel on her neck - chain as it arced through the blackness .
" Corisande .... " he breathed .
" Ludovick .... " she sighed .
Now that the amenities were over , she resumed , " Against my will , I have been involved in the family plot .
My uncle has invented a secret weapon which he believes will counteract the power of the barriers . "
" But I thought you devised it ! "
" So it was you in the courtyard .
Well , what happened was I wanted to gain time , so I said I had a secret weapon of my own invention which I had not perfected , but which would cost considerably less than my uncle 's model .
We have to watch the budget , you know , because we can hardly expect the Belphins to supply the components for this job .
Anyhow , I thought that , while my folks were waiting for me to finish it , you would have a chance to warn the Belphins . "
" Corisande , " he murmured , " you are as noble and clever as you are beautiful . "
Then he caught the full import of her remarks . "
Me !
But they wo n't pay any attention to me ! "
" How do you know ? "
When he remained silent , she said , " I suppose you 've already tried to warn them about us . "
" I - I said you had nothing to do with the plot . "
" That was good of you . "
She continued in a warmer tone : " How many Belphins did you warn , then ? "
" Just one .
When you tell one something , you tell them all .
You know that .
Everyone knows that . "
" That 's just theory , " she said .
" It 's never been proven .
All we do know is that they have some sort of central clearing house of information , presumably The Belphin of Belphins .
But we do n't know that they are incapable of thinking or acting individually .
We do n't really know much about them at all ; they 're very secretive . "
" Aloof , " he corrected her , " as befits a ruling race .
But always affable . "
" You must warn as many Belphins as you can . "
" And if none listens to me ? "
" Then , " she said dramatically , " you must approach The Belphin of Belphins himself . "
" But no human being has ever come near him ! "
he said plaintively .
" You know that all those who have tried perished .
And that ca n't be a rumor , because your grandfather said - " " But they came to attack The Belphin .
You 're coming to warn him !
That makes a big difference .
Ludovick .... " She took his hands in hers ; in the darkness , the jewel swung madly on her presumably heaving bosom .
" This is bigger than both of us .
It 's for Earth . "
He knew it was his patriotic duty to do as she said ; still , he had enjoyed life so much .
" Corisande , would n't it be much simpler if we just destroyed your uncle 's secret weapon ? "
" He 'd only make another .
Do n't you see , Ludovick , this is our only chance to save the Belphins , to save humanity ....
But , of course , I do n't have the right to send you .
I 'll go myself . "
" No , Corisande , " he sighed .
" I ca n't let you go .
I 'll do it . "
Next morning , he set out to warn Belphins .
He knew it was n't much use , but it was all he could do .
The first half dozen responded in much the same way the Belphin he had warned the previous day had done , by courteously acknowledging his solicitude and assuring him there was no need for alarm ; they knew all about the Flockharts and everything would be all right .
After that , they started to get increasingly huffy - which would , he thought , substantiate the theory that they were all part of one vast coordinate network of identity .
Especially since each Belphin behaved as if Ludovick had been repeatedly annoying him .
Finally , they refused to get off the walks when he hailed them - which was unheard of , for no Belphin had ever before failed to respond to an Earthman 's call - and when he started running along the walks after them , they ran much faster than he could .
At last he gave up and wandered about the city for hours , speaking to neither human nor Belphin , wondering what to do .
That is , he knew what he had to do ; he was wondering how to do it .
He would never be able to reach The Belphin of Belphins .
No human being had ever done it .
Mieczyslaw and George had died trying to reach him ( or it ) .
Even though their intentions had been hostile and Ludovick 's would be helpful , there was little chance he would be allowed to reach The Belphin with all the other Belphins against him .
What guarantee was there that The Belphin would not be against him , too ?
And yet he knew that he would have to risk his life ; there was no help for it .
He had never wanted to be a hero , and here he had heroism thrust upon him .
He knew he could not succeed ; equally well , he knew he could not turn back , for his Belphin teacher had instructed him in the meaning of duty .
It was twilight when he approached the Blue Tower .
Commending himself to the Infinite Virtue , he entered .
The Belphin at the reception desk did not give off the customary smiling expression .
In fact , he seemed to radiate a curiously apprehensive aura .
" Go back , young man , " he said .
" You 're not wanted here . "
" I must see The Belphin of Belphins .
I must warn him against the Flockharts . "
" He has been warned , " the receptionist told him .
" Go home and be happy ! "
" I do n't trust you or your brothers .
I must see The Belphin himself . "
Suddenly this particular Belphin lost his commanding manners .
He began to wilt , insofar as so rigidly constructed a creature could go limp .
" Please , we 've done so much for you .
Do this for us . "
" The Belphin of Belphins did things for us , " Ludovick countered .
" You are all only his followers .
How do I know you are really following him ?
How do I know you have n't turned against him ? "
Without giving the creature a chance to answer , he strode forward .
The Belphin attempted to bar his way .
Ludovick knew one Belphin was a myriad times as strong as a human , so it was out of utter futility that he struck .
The Belphin collapsed completely , flying apart in a welter of fragile springs and gears .
The fact was of some deeper significance , Ludovick knew , but he was too numbed by his incredible success to be able to think clearly .
All he knew was that The Belphin would be able to explain things to him .
Bells began to clash and clang .
That meant the force barriers had gone up .
He could see the shimmering insubstance of the first one before him .
Squaring his shoulders , he charged it ... and walked right through .
He looked himself up and down .
He was alive and entire .
Then the whole thing was a fraud ; the barriers were not lethal - or perhaps even actual .
But what of Mieczyslaw ?
And George ?
And countless rumored others ?
He would not let himself even try to think of them .
He would not let himself even try to think of anything save his duty .
A staircase spiraled up ahead of him .
A Belphin was at its foot .
Behind him , a barrier iridesced .
" Please , young man - " the Belphin began .
" You do n't understand .
Let me explain . "
But Ludovick destroyed the thing before it could say anything further , and he passed right through the barrier .
He had to get to the top and warn The Belphin of Belphins , whoever or whatever he ( or it ) was , that the Flockharts had a secret weapon which might be able to annihilate it ( or him ) .
Belphin after Belphin Ludovick destroyed , and barrier after barrier he penetrated until he reached the top .
At the head of the stairs was a vast golden door .
" Go no further , Ludovick Eversole ! "
a mighty voice roared from within .
" To open that door is to bring disaster upon your race . "
But all Ludovick knew was that he had to get to The Belphin within and warn him .
He battered down the door ; that is , he would have battered down the door if it had not turned out to be unlocked .
A stream of noxious vapor rushed out of the opening , causing him to black out .
When he came to , most of the vapor had dissipated .
The Belphin of Belphins was already dying of asphyxiation , since it was , in fact , a single alien entity who breathed another combination of elements .
The room at the head of the stairs had been its tank .
" You fool .... " it gasped .
" Through your muddle - headed integrity ... you have destroyed not only me ... but Earth 's future .
I tried to make ... this planet a better place for humanity ... and this is my reward .... " " But I do n't understand ! "
Ludovick wept . "
Why did you let me do it ?
Why were Mieczyslaw and George and all the others killed ?
Why was it that I could pass the barriers and they could not ? "
" The barriers were triggered ... to respond to hostility .... You meant well ... so our defenses ... could not work . "
Ludovick had to bend low to hear the creature 's last words : " There is ... Earth proverb ... should have warned me ... ' I can protect myself ... against my enemies ... but who will protect me ... from my friends ' ... ? "
The Belphin of Belphins died in Ludovick 's arms .
He was the last of his race , so far as Earth was concerned , for no more came .
If , as they had said themselves , some outside power had sent them to take care of the human race , then that power had given up the race as a bad job .
If they were merely exploiting Earth , as the malcontents had kept suggesting , apparently it had proven too dangerous or too costly a venture .
Shortly after The Belphin 's demise , the Flockharts arrived en masse .
" We wo n't need your secret weapons now , " Ludovick told them dully .
" The Belphin of Belphins is dead . "
Corisande gave one of the rippling laughs he was to grow to hate so much .
" Darling , you were my secret weapon all along ! "
She beamed at her " relatives , " and it was then he noticed the faint lines of her forehead .
" I told you I could use the power of love to destroy the Belphins ! "
And then she added gently : " I think there is no doubt who is head of ' this family ' now . "
The uncle gave a strained laugh .
" You 're going to have a great little first lady there , boy , " he said to Ludovick .
" First lady ? "
Ludovick repeated , still absorbed in his grief .
" Yes , I imagine the people will want to make you our first President by popular acclaim . "
Ludovick looked at him through a haze of tears .
" But I killed The Belphin .
I did n't mean to , but ... they must hate me ! "
" Nonsense , my boy ; they 'll adore you .
You 'll be a hero ! "
Events proved him right .
Even those people who had lived in apparent content under the Belphins , accepting what they were given and seemingly enjoying their carefree lives , now declared themselves to have been suffering in silent resentment all along .
They hurled flowers and adulatory speeches at Ludovick and composed extremely flattering songs about him .
Shortly after he was universally acclaimed President , he married Corisande .
He could n't escape .
" Why does n't she become President herself ? "
he wailed , when the relatives came and found him hiding in the ruins of the Blue Tower .
The people had torn the Tower down as soon as they were sure The Belphin was dead and the others thereby rendered inoperant .
" It would spare her a lot of bother . "
" Because she is not The Belphin - slayer , " the uncle said , dragging him out .
" Besides , she loves you .
Come on , Ludovick , be a man . "
So they hauled him off to the wedding and , amid much feasting , he was married to Corisande .
He never drew another happy breath .
In the first place , now that The Belphin was dead , all the machinery that had been operated by him stopped and no one knew how to fix it .
The sidewalks stopped moving , the air conditioners stopped conditioning , the food synthesizers stopped synthesizing , and so on .
And , of course , everybody blamed it all on Ludovick - even that year 's run of bad weather .
There were famines , riots , plagues , and , after the waves of mob hostility had coalesced into national groupings , wars .
It was like the old days again , precisely as described in the textbooks .
In the second place , Ludovick could never forget that , when Corisande had sent him to the Blue Tower , she could not have been sure that her secret weapon would work .
Love might not have conquered all - in fact , it was the more likely hypothesis that it would n't - and he would have been killed by the first barrier .
And no husband likes to think that his wife thinks he 's expendable ; it makes him feel she does n't really love him .
So , in thirtieth year of his reign as Dictator of Earth , Ludovick poisoned Corisande - that is , had her poisoned , for by now he had a Minister of Assassination to handle such little matters - and married a very pretty , very young , very affectionate blonde .
He was n't particularly happy with her , either , but at least it was a change .
The least that Findlayson , of the Public Works Department , expected was a C.I.E.
; he dreamed of a C.S.I.
Indeed , his friends told him that he deserved more .
For three years he had endured heat and cold , disappointment , discomfort , danger , and disease , with responsibility almost to top - heavy for one pair of shoulders ; and day by day , through that time , the great Kashi Bridge over the Ganges had grown under his charge .
Now , in less than three months , if all went well , his Excellency the Viceroy would open the bridge in state , an archbishop would bless it , and the first trainload of soldiers would come over it , and there would be speeches .
Findlayson , C. E. , sat in his trolley on a construction line that ran along one of the main revetments - the huge stone - faced banks that flared away north and south for three miles on either side of the river and permitted himself to think of the end .
With its approaches , his work was one mile and three - quarters in length ; a lattice - girder bridge , trussed with the Findlayson truss standing on seven - and - twenty brick piers .
Each one of those piers was twenty - four feet in diameter , capped with red Agra stone and sunk eighty feet below the shifting sand of the Ganges ' bed .
Above them was a railway - line fifteen feet broad ; above that , again , a cart - road of eighteen feet , flanked with footpaths .
At either end rose towers , of red brick , loopholed for musketry and pierced for big guns , and the ramp of the road was being pushed forward to their haunches .
The raw earth - ends were crawling and alive with hundreds upon hundreds of tiny asses climbing out of the yawning borrow - pit below with sackfuls of stuff ; and the hot afternoon air was filled with the noise of hooves , the rattle of the drivers ' sticks , and the swish and roll - down of the dirt .
The river was very low , and on the dazzling white sand between the three centre piers stood squat cribs of railway - sleepers , filled within and daubed without with mud , to support the last of the girders as those were riveted up .
In the little deep water left by the drought , an overhead crane travelled to and fro along its spile - pier , jerking sections of iron into place , snorting and backing and grunting as an elephant grunts in the timberyard .
Riveters by the hundred swarmed about the lattice side - work and the iron roof of the railway line hung from invisible staging under the bellies of the girders , clustered round the throats of the piers , and rode on the overhang of the footpath - stanchions ; their fire - pots and the spurts of flame that answered each hammer - stroke showing no more than pale yellow in the sun 's glare .
East and west and north and south the construction - trains rattled and shrieked up and down the embankments , the piled trucks of brown and white stone banging behind them till the side - boards were unpinned , and with a roar and a grumble a few thousand tons ' more material were flung out to hold the river in place .
Findlayson , C. E. , turned on his trolley and looked over the face of the country that he had changed for seven miles around .
Looked back on the humming village of five thousand work - men ; up stream and down , along the vista of spurs and sand ; across the river to the far piers , lessening in the haze ; overhead to the guard - towers - and only he knew how strong those were - and with a sigh of contentment saw that his work was good .
There stood his bridge before him in the sunlight , lacking only a few weeks ' work on the girders of the three middle piers - his bridge , raw and ugly as original sin , but pukka - permanent - to endure when all memory of the builder , yea , even of the splendid Findlayson truss , has perished .
Practically , the thing was done .
Hitchcock , his assistant , cantered along the line on a little switch - tailed Kabuli pony who through long practice could have trotted securely over trestle , and nodded to his chief .
" All but , " said he , with a smile .
" I 've been thinking about it , " the senior answered .
" Not half a bad job for two men , is it ? "
" One - and a half .
' Gad , what a Cooper 's Hill cub I was when I came on the works ! "
Hitchcock felt very old in the crowded experiences of the past three years , that had taught him power and responsibility .
" You were rather a colt , " said Findlayson .
" I wonder how you 'll like going back to office - work when this job 's over . "
" I shall hate it ! "
said the young man , and as he went on his eye followed Findlayson 's , and he muttered , " Is n't it damned good ? "
" I think we 'll go up the service together , " Findlayson said to himself .
" You 're too good a youngster to waste on another man .
Cub thou wast ; assistant thou art .
Personal assistant , and at Simla , thou shalt be , if any credit comes to me out of the business ! "
Indeed , the burden of the work had fallen altogether on Findlayson and his assistant , the young man whom he had chosen because of his rawness to break to his own needs .
There were labour contractors by the half - hundred - fitters and riveters , European , borrowed from the railway workshops , with , perhaps , twenty white and half - caste subordinates to direct , under direction , the bevies of workmen - but none knew better than these two , who trusted each other , how the underlings were not to be trusted .
They had been tried many times in sudden crises - by slipping of booms , by breaking of tackle , failure of cranes , and the wrath of the river - but no stress had brought to light any man among men whom Findlayson and Hitchcock would have honoured by working as remorselessly as they worked them - selves .
Findlayson thought it over from the beginning : the months of office - work destroyed at a blow when the Government of India , at the last moment , added two feet to the width of the bridge , under the impression that bridges were cut out of paper , and so brought to ruin at least half an acre of calculations - and Hitchcock , new to disappointment , buried his head in his arms and wept ; the heart - breaking delays over the filling of the contracts in England ; the futile correspondences hinting at great wealth of commissions if one , only one , rather doubtful consignment were passed ; the war that followed the refusal ; the careful , polite obstruction at the other end that followed the war , till young Hitchcock , putting one month 's leave to another month , and borrowing ten days from Findlayson , spent his poor little savings of a year in a wild dash to London , and there , as his own tongue asserted and the later consignments proved , put the fear of God into a man so great that he feared only Parliament and said so till Hitchcock wrought with him across his own dinner table , and - he feared the Kashi Bridge and all who spoke in its name .
Then there was the cholera that came in the night to the village by the bridge works ; and after the cholera smote the small - pox .
The fever they had always with them .
Hitchcock had been appointed a magistrate of the third class with whipping powers , for the better government of the community , and Findlayson watched him wield his powers temperately , learning what to overlook and what to look after .
It was a long , long reverie , and it covered storm , sudden freshets , death in every manner and shape , violent and awful rage against red tape half frenzying a mind that knows it should be busy on other things ; drought , sanitation , finance ; birth , wedding , burial , and riot in the village of twenty warring castes ; argument , expostulation , persuasion , and the blank despair that a man goes to bed upon , thankful that his rifle is all in pieces in the gun - case .
Behind everything rose the black frame of the Kashi Bridge - plate by plate , girder by girder , span by span - and each pier of it recalled Hitchcock , the all - round man , who had stood by his chief without failing from the very first to this last .
So the bridge was two men 's work - unless one counted Peroo , as Peroo certainly counted himself .
He was a Lascar , a Kharva from Bulsar , familiar with every port between Rockhampton and London , who had risen to the rank of serang on the British India boats , but wearying of routine musters and clean clothes , had thrown up the service and gone inland , where men of his calibre were sure of employment .
For his knowledge of tackle and the handling of heavy weights , Peroo was worth almost any price he might have chosen to put upon his services ; but custom decreed the wage of the overhead - men , and Peroo was not within many silver pieces of his proper value .
Neither running water nor extreme heights made him afraid ; and , as an ex - serang , he knew how to hold authority .
No piece of iron was so big or so badly placed that Peroo could not devise a tackle to lift it - a loose - ended , sagging arrangement , rigged with a scandalous amount of talking , but perfectly equal to the work in hand .
It was Peroo who had saved the girder of Number Seven pier from destruction when the new wire - rope jammed in the eye of the crane , and the huge plate tilted in its slings , threatening to slide out sideways .
Then the native workmen lost their heads with great shoutings , and Hitchcock 's right arm was broken by a falling T - plate , and he buttoned it up in his coat and swooned , and came to and directed for four hours till Peroo , from the top of the crane , reported " All 's well , " and the plate swung home .
There was no one like Peroo , serang , to lash , and guy , and hold , to control the donkey - engines , to hoist a fallen locomotive craftily out of the borrow - pit into which it had tumbled ; to strip , and dive , if need be , to see how the concrete blocks round the piers stood the scouring of Mother Gunga , or to adventure upstream on a monsoon night and report on the state of the embankment - facings .
He would interrupt the field - councils of Findlayson and Hitchcock without fear , till his wonderful English , or his still more wonderful linguafranca , half Portuguese and half Malay , ran out and he was forced to take string and show the knots that he would recommend .
He controlled his own gang of tackle men - mysterious relatives from Kutch Mandvi gathered month by month and tried to the uttermost .
No consideration of family or kin allowed Peroo to keep weak hands or a giddy head on the pay - roll .
" My honour is the honour of this bridge , " he would say to the about - to - be - dismissed .
" What do I care for your honour ?
Go and work on a steamer .
That is all you are fit for . "
The little cluster of huts where he and his gang lived centred round the tattered dwelling of a sea - priest - one who had never set foot on black water , but had been chosen as ghostly counsellor by two generations of sea - rovers all unaffected by port missions or those creeds which are thrust upon sailors by agencies along Thames bank .
The priest of the Lascars had nothing to do with their caste , or indeed with anything at all .
He ate the offerings of his church , and slept and smoked , and slept again , " for , " said Peroo , who had haled him a thousand miles inland , " he is a very holy man .
He never cares what you eat so long as you do not eat beef , and that is good , because on land we worship Shiva , we Kharvas ; but at sea on the Kumpani 's boats we attend strictly to the orders of the Burra Malum [ the first mate ] , and on this bridge we observe what Finlinson Sahib says . "
Finlinson Sahib had that day given orders to clear the scaffolding from the guard - tower on the right bank , and Peroo with his mates was casting loose and lowering down the bamboo poles and planks as swiftly as ever they had whipped the cargo out of a coaster .
From his trolley he could hear the whistle of the serang 's silver pipe and the creek and clatter of the pulleys .
Peroo was standing on the top - most coping of the tower , clad in the blue dungaree of his abandoned service , and as Findlayson motioned to him to be careful , for his was no life to throw away , he gripped the last pole , and , shading his eyes ship - fashion , answered with the long - drawn wail of the fo'c'sle lookout : " Ham dekhta hai " ( " I am looking out " ) .
Findlayson laughed and then sighed .
It was years since he had seen a steamer , and he was sick for home .
As his trolley passed under the tower , Peroo descended by a rope , ape - fashion , and cried : " It looks well now , Sahib .
Our bridge is all but done .
What think you Mother Gunga will say when the rail runs over ? "
" She has said little so far .
It was never Mother Gunga that delayed us . "
" There is always time for her ; and none the less there has been delay .
Has the Sahib forgotten last autumn 's flood , when the stone - boats were sunk without warning - or only a half - day 's warning ? "
" Yes , but nothing save a big flood could hurt us now .
The spurs are holding well on the West Bank . "
" Mother Gunga eats great allowances .
There is always room for more stone on the revetments .
I tell this to the Chota Sahib , " - he meant Hitchcock - " and he laughs . "
" No matter , Peroo .
Another year thou wilt be able to build a bridge in thine own fashion . "
The Lascar grinned .
" Then it will not be in this way - with stonework sunk under water , as the Qyetta was sunk .
I like sus - sus - pen - sheen bridges that fly from bank to bank with one big step , like a gang - plank .
Then no water can hurt .
When does the Lord Sahib come to open the bridge ? "
" In three months , when the weather is cooler . "
" Ho !
ho !
He is like the Burra Malum .
He sleeps below while the work is being done .
Then he comes upon the quarter - deck and touches with his finger , and says : ' This is not clean !
Dam jibboonwallah ! ' "
" But the Lord Sahib does not call me a dam jibboonwallah , Peroo . "
" No , Sahib ; but he does not come on deck till the work is all finished .
Even the Burra Malum of the Nerbudda said once at Tuticorin - " " Bah !
Go !
I am busy . "
" I , also ! "
said Peroo , with an unshaken countenance .
" May I take the light dinghy now and row along the spurs ? "
" To hold them with thy hands ?
They are , I think , sufficiently heavy . "
" Nay , Sahib .
It is thus .
At sea , on the Black Water , we have room to be blown up and down without care .
Here we have no room at all .
Look you , we have put the river into a dock , and run her between stone sills . "
Findlayson smiled at the " we . "
" We have bitted and bridled her .
She is not like the sea , that can beat against a soft beach .
She is Mother Gunga - in irons . "
His voice fell a little .
" Peroo , thou hast been up and down the world more even than I.
Speak true talk , now .
How much dost thou in thy heart believe of Mother Gunga ? "
" All that our priest says .
London is London , Sahib .
Sydney is Sydney , and Port Darwin is Port Darwin .
Also Mother Gunga is Mother Gunga , and when I come back to her banks I know this and worship .
In London I did poojah to the big temple by the river for the sake of the God within .
...
Yes , I will not take the cushions in the dinghy . "
Findlayson mounted his horse and trotted to the shed of a bungalow that he shared with his assistant .
The place had become home to him in the last three years .
He had grilled in the heat , sweated in the rains , and shivered with fever under the rude thatch roof ; the lime - wash beside the door was covered with rough drawings and formulae , and the sentry - path trodden in the matting of the verandah showed where he had walked alone .
There is no eight - hour limit to an engineer 's work , and the evening meal with Hitchcock was eaten booted and spurred : over their cigars they listened to the hum of the village as the gangs came up from the river - bed and the lights began to twinkle .
" Peroo has gone up the spurs in your dinghy .
He 's taken a couple of nephews with him , and he 's lolling in the stern like a commodore , " said Hitchcock .
" That 's all right .
He 's got something on his mind .
You 'd think that ten years in the British India boats would have knocked most of his religion out of him . "
" So it has , " said Hitchcock , chuckling .
" I overheard him the other day in the middle of a most atheistical talk with that fat old guru of theirs .
Peroo denied the efficacy of prayer ; and wanted the guru to go to sea and watch a gale out with him , and see if he could stop a monsoon . "
" All the same , if you carried off his guru he 'd leave us like a shot .
He was yarning away to me about praying to the dome of St. Paul 's when he was in London . "
" He told me that the first time he went into the engine - room of a steamer , when he was a boy , he prayed to the low - pressure cylinder . "
" Not half a bad thing to pray to , either .
He 's propitiating his own Gods now , and he wants to know what Mother Gunga will think of a bridge being run across her .
Who 's there ? "
A shadow darkened the doorway , and a telegram was put into Hitchcock 's hand .
" She ought to be pretty well used to it by this time .
Only a tar .
It ought to be Ralli 's answer about the new rivets ... . Great Heavens ! "
Hitchcock jumped to his feet .
" What is it ? "
said the senior , and took the form .
" That 's what Mother Gunga thinks , is it , " he said , reading .
" Keep cool , young ' un .
We 've got all our work cut out for us .
Let 's see .
Muir wired half an hour ago : ' Floods on the Ramgunga .
Look out . '
Well , that gives us - one , two - nine and a half for the flood to reach Melipur Ghaut and seven 's sixteen and a half to Lataoli - say fifteen hours before it comes down to us . "
" Curse that hill - fed sewer of a Ramgunga !
Findlayson , this is two months before anything could have been expected , and the left bank is littered up with stuff still .
Two full months before the time ! "
" That 's why it comes .
I 've only known Indian rivers for five - and - twenty years , and I do n't pretend to understand .
Here comes another tar . "
Findlayson opened the telegram .
" Cockran , this time , from the Ganges Canal : ' Heavy rains here .
Bad . '
He might have saved the last word .
Well , we do n't want to know any more .
We 've got to work the gangs all night and clean up the riverbed .
You 'll take the east bank and work out to meet me in the middle .
Get everything that floats below the bridge : we shall have quite enough river - craft coming down adrift anyhow , without letting the stone - boats ram the piers .
What have you got on the east bank that needs looking after ?
" Pontoon - one big pontoon with the overhead crane on it .
T'other overhead crane on the mended pontoon , with the cart - road rivets from Twenty to Twenty - three piers - two construction lines , and a turning - spur .
The pilework must take its chance , " said Hitchcock .
" All right .
Roll up everything you can lay hands on .
We 'll give the gang fifteen minutes more to eat their grub . "
Close to the verandah stood a big night - gong , never used except for flood , or fire in the village .
Hitchcock had called for a fresh horse , and was off to his side of the bridge when Findlayson took the cloth - bound stick and smote with the rubbing stroke that brings out the full thunder of the metal .
Long before the last rumble ceased every night - gong in the village had taken up the warning .
To these were added the hoarse screaming of conches in the little temples ; the throbbing of drums and tom - toms ; and , from the European quarters , where the riveters lived , McCartney 's bugle , a weapon of offence on Sundays and festivals , brayed desperately , calling to " Stables . "
Engine after engine toiling home along the spurs at the end of her day 's work whistled in answer till the whistles were answered from the far bank .
Then the big gong thundered thrice for a sign that it was flood and not fire ; conch , drum , and whistle echoed the call , and the village quivered to the sound of bare feet running upon soft earth .
The order in all cases was to stand by the day 's work and wait instructions .
The gangs poured by in the dusk ; men stopping to knot a loin - cloth or fasten a sandal ; gang - foremen shouting to their subordinates as they ran or paused by the tool - issue sheds for bars and mattocks ; locomotives creeping down their tracks wheel - deep in the crowd ; till the brown torrent disappeared into the dusk of the river - bed , raced over the pilework , swarmed along the lattices , clustered by the cranes , and stood still - each man in his place .
Then the troubled beating of the gong carried the order to take up everything and bear it beyond high - water mark , and the flare - lamps broke out by the hundred between the webs of dull iron as the riveters began a night 's work , racing against the flood that was to come .
The girders of the three centre piers - those that stood on the cribs - were all but in position .
They needed just as many rivets as could be driven into them , for the flood would assuredly wash out their supports , and the ironwork would settle down on the caps of stone if they were not blocked at the ends .
A hundred crowbars strained at the sleepers of the temporary line that fed the unfinished piers .
It was heaved up in lengths , loaded into trucks , and backed up the bank beyond flood - level by the groaning locomotives .
The tool - sheds on the sands melted away before the attack of shouting armies , and with them went the stacked ranks of Government stores , iron - bound boxes of rivets , pliers , cutters , duplicate parts of the riveting - machines , spare pumps and chains .
The big crane would be the last to be shifted , for she was hoisting all the heavy stuff up to the main structure of the bridge .
The concrete blocks on the fleet of stone - boats were dropped overside , where there was any depth of water , to guard the piers , and the empty boats themselves were poled under the bridge down - stream .
It was here that Peroo 's pipe shrilled loudest , for the first stroke of the big gong had brought the dinghy back at racing speed , and Peroo and his people were stripped to the waist , working for the honour and credit which are better than life .
" I knew she would speak , " he cried .
" I knew , but the telegraph gives us good warning .
O sons of unthinkable begetting - children of unspeakable shame - are we here for the look of the thing ? "
It was two feet of wire - rope frayed at the ends , and it did wonders as Peroo leaped from gunnel to gunnel , shouting the language of the sea .
Findlayson was more troubled for the stoneboats than anything else .
McCartney , with his gangs , was blocking up the ends of the three doubtful spans , but boats adrift , if the flood chanced to be a high one , might endanger the girders ; and there was a very fleet in the shrunken channel .
" Get them behind the swell of the guardtower , " he shouted down to Peroo .
" It will be dead - water there .
Get them below the bridge . "
" Accha !
[ Very good . ]
I know ; we are mooring them with wire - rope , " was the answer .
" Heh !
Listen to the Chota Sahib .
He is working hard . "
From across the river came an almost continuous whistling of locomotives , backed by the rumble of stone .
Hitchcock at the last minute was spending a few hundred more trucks of Tarakee stone in reinforcing his spurs and embankments .
" The bridge challenges Mother Gunga , " said Peroo , with a laugh .
" But when she talks I know whose voice will be the loudest . "
For hours the naked men worked , screaming and shouting under the lights .
It was a hot , moonless night ; the end of it was darkened by clouds and a sudden squall that made Findlayson very grave .
" She moves ! "
said Peroo , just before the dawn .
" Mother Gunga is awake !
Hear ! "
He dipped his hand over the side of a boat and the current mumbled on it .
A little wave hit the side of a pier with a crisp slap .
" Six hours before her time , " said Findlayson , mopping his forehead savagely .
" Now we ca n't depend on anything .
We 'd better clear all hands out of the riverbed . "
Again the big gong beat , and a second time there was the rushing of naked feet on earth and ringing iron ; the clatter of tools ceased .
In the silence , men heard the dry yawn of water crawling over thirsty sand .
Foreman after foreman shouted to Findlayson , who had posted himself by the guard - tower , that his section of the river - bed had been cleaned out , and when the last voice dropped Findlayson hurried over the bridge till the iron plating of the permanent way gave place to the temporary plank - walk over the three centre piers , and there he met Hitchcock .
" ' All clear your side ? "
said Findlayson .
The whisper rang in the box of lattice work .
" Yes , and the east channel 's filling now .
We 're utterly out of our reckoning .
When is this thing down on us ? "
" There 's no saying .
She 's filling as fast as she can .
Look ! "
Findlayson pointed to the planks below his feet , where the sand , burned and defiled by months of work , was beginning to whisper and fizz .
" What orders ? "
said Hitchcock .
" Call the roll - count stores sit on your hunkers - and pray for the bridge .
That 's all I can think of Good night .
Do n't risk your life trying to fish out anything that may go downstream . "
" Oh , I 'll be as prudent as you are !
' Night .
Heavens , how she 's filling !
Here 's the rain in earnest . "
Findlayson picked his way back to his bank , sweeping the last of McCartney 's riveters before him .
The gangs had spread themselves along the embankments , regardless of the cold rain of the dawn , and there they waited for the flood .
Only Peroo kept his men together behind the swell of the guard - tower , where the stone - boats lay tied fore and aft with hawsers , wire - rope , and chains .
A shrill wail ran along the line , growing to a yell , half fear and half wonder : the face of the river whitened from bank to hank between the stone facings , and the far - away spurs went out in spouts of foam .
Mother Gunga had come bank - high in haste , and a wall of chocolate - coloured water was her messenger .
There was a shriek above the roar of the water , the complaint of the spans coming down on their blocks as the cribs were whirled out from under their bellies .
The stone - boats groaned and ground each other in the eddy that swung round the abutment , and their clumsy masts rose higher and higher against the dim sky - line .
" Before she was shut between these walls we knew what she would do .
Now she is thus cramped God only knows what she will do ! "
said Peroo , watching the furious turmoil round the guard - tower .
" Ohe ' !
Fight , then !
Fight hard , for it is thus that a woman wears herself out . "
But Mother Gunga would not fight as Peroo desired .
After the first down - stream plunge there came no more walls of water , but the river lifted herself bodily , as a snake when she drinks in midsummer , plucking and fingering along the revetments , and banking up behind the piers till even Findlayson began to recalculate the strength of his work .
When day came the village gasped .
" Only last night , " men said , turning to each other , " it was as a town in the river - bed !
Look now ! "
And they looked and wondered afresh at the deep water , the racing water that licked the throat of the piers .
The farther bank was veiled by rain , into which the bridge ran out and vanished ; the spurs up - stream were marked by no more than eddies and spoutings , and down - stream the pent river , once freed of her guide - lines , had spread like a sea to the horizon .
Then hurried by , rolling in the water , dead men and oxen together , with here and there a patch of thatched roof that melted when it touched a pier .
" Big flood , " said Peroo , and Findlayson nodded .
It was as big a flood as he had any wish to watch .
His bridge would stand what was upon her now , but not very much more , and if by any of a thousand chances there happened to be a weakness in the embankments , Mother Gunga would carry his honour to the sea with the other raffle .
Worst of all , there was nothing to do except to sit still ; and Findlayson sat still under his macintosh till his helmet became pulp on his head , and his boots were over - ankle in mire .
He took no count of time , for the river was marking the hours , inch by inch and foot by foot , along the embankment , and he listened , numb and hungry , to the straining of the stone - boats , the hollow thunder under the piers , and the hundred noises that make the full note of a flood .
Once a dripping servant brought him food , but he could not eat ; and once he thought that he heard a faint toot from a locomotive across the river , and then he smiled .
The bridge 's failure would hurt his assistant not a little , but Hitchcock was a young man with his big work yet to do .
For himself the crash meant everything - everything that made a hard life worth the living .
They would say , the men of his own profession ... he remembered the half - pitying things that he himself had said when Lockhart 's new waterworks burst and broke down in brick - heaps and sludge , and Lockhart 's spirit broke in him and he died .
He remembered what he himself had said when the Sumao Bridge went out in the big cyclone by the sea ; and most he remembered poor Hartopp 's face three weeks later , when the shame had marked it .
His bridge was twice the size of Hartopp 's , and it carried the Findlayson truss as well as the new pier - shoe - the Findlayson bolted shoe .
There were no excuses in his service .
Government might listen , perhaps , but his own kind would judge him by his bridge , as that stood or fell .
He went over it in his head , plate by plate , span by span , brick by brick , pier by pier , remembering , comparing , estimating , and recalculating , lest there should be any mistake ; and through the long hours and through the flights of formulae that danced and wheeled before him a cold fear would come to pinch his heart .
His side of the sum was beyond question ; but what man knew Mother Gunga 's arithmetic ?
Even as he was making all sure by the multiplication table , the river might be scooping a pot - hole to the very bottom of any one of those eighty - foot piers that carried his reputation .
Again a servant came to him with food , but his mouth was dry , and he could only drink and return to the decimals in his brain .
And the river was still rising .
Peroo , in a mat shelter coat , crouched at his feet , watching now his face and now the face of the river , but saying nothing .
At last the Lascar rose and floundered through the mud towards the village , but he was careful to leave an ally to watch the boats .
Presently he returned , most irreverently driving before him the priest of his creed - a fat old man , with a grey beard that whipped the wind with the wet cloth that blew over his shoulder .
Never was seen so lamentable a guru .
" What good are offerings and little kerosene lamps and dry grain , " shouted Peroo , " if squatting in the mud is all that thou canst do ?
Thou hast dealt long with the Gods when they were contented and well - wishing .
Now they are angry .
Speak to them ! "
" What is a man against the wrath of Gods ? "
whined the priest , cowering as the wind took him .
" Let me go to the temple , and I will pray there . "
" Son of a pig , pray here !
Is there no return for salt fish and curry powder and dried onions ?
Call aloud !
Tell Mother Gunga we have had enough .
Bid her be still for the night .
I can not pray , but I have been serving in the Kumpani 's boats , and when men did not obey my orders I - " A flourish of the wire - rope colt rounded the sentence , and the priest , breaking free from his disciple , fled to the village .
" Fat pig ! "
said Peroo .
" After all that we have done for him !
When the flood is down I will see to it that we get a new guru .
Finlinson Sahib , it darkens for night now , and since yesterday nothing has been eaten .
Be wise , Sahib .
No man can endure watching and great thinking on an empty belly .
Lie down , Sahib .
The river will do what the river will do . "
" The bridge is mine ; I can not leave it . "
" Wilt thou hold it up with thy hands , then ? "
said Peroo , laughing .
" I was troubled for my boats and sheers before the flood came .
Now we are in the hands of the Gods .
The Sahib will not eat and lie down ?
Take these , then .
They are meat and good toddy together , and they kill all weariness , besides the fever that follows the rain .
I have eaten nothing else to - day at all . "
He took a small tin tobacco - box from his sodden waist - belt and thrust it into Findlayson 's hand , saying : " Nay , do not be afraid .
It is no more than opium - clean Malwa opium . "
Findlayson shook two or three of the dark - brown pellets into his hand , and hardly knowing what he did , swallowed them .
The stuff was at least a good guard against fever - the fever that was creeping upon him out of the wet mud - and he had seen what Peroo could do in the stewing mists of autumn on the strength of a dose from the tin box .
Peroo nodded with bright eyes .
" In a little - in a little the Sahib will find that he thinks well again .
I too will - " He dived into his treasure - box , resettled the rain - coat over his head , and squatted down to watch the boats .
It was too dark now to see beyond the first pier , and the night seemed to have given the river new strength .
Findlayson stood with his chin on his chest , thinking .
There was one point about one of the piers - the seventh - that he had not fully settled in his mind .
The figures would not shape themselves to the eye except one by one and at enormous intervals of time .
There was a sound rich and mellow in his ears like the deepest note of a double - bass - an entrancing sound upon which he pondered for several hours , as it seemed .
Then Peroo was at his elbow , shouting that a wire hawser had snapped and the stone - boats were loose .
Findlayson saw the fleet open and swing out fanwise to a long - drawn shriek of wire straining across gunnels .
" A tree hit them .
They will all go , " cried Peroo .
" The main hawser has parted .
What does the Sahib do ? "
An immensely complex plan had suddenly flashed into Findlayson 's mind .
He saw the ropes running from boat to boat in straight lines and angles - each rope a line of white fire .
But there was one rope which was the master rope .
He could see that rope .
If he could pull it once , it was absolutely and mathematically certain that the disordered fleet would reassemble itself in the backwater behind the guard - tower .
But why , he wondered , was Peroo clinging so desperately to his waist as he hastened down the bank ?
It was necessary to put the Lascar aside , gently and slowly , because it was necessary to save the boats , and , further , to demonstrate the extreme ease of the problem that looked so difficult .
And then - but it was of no conceivable importance - a wire - rope raced through his hand , burning it , the high bank disappeared , and with it all the slowly dispersing factors of the problem .
He was sitting in the rainy darkness - sitting in a boat that spun like a top , and Peroo was standing over him .
" I had forgotten , " said the Lascar , slowly , " that to those fasting and unused , the opium is worse than any wine .
Those who die in Gunga go to the Gods .
Still , I have no desire to present myself before such great ones .
Can the Sahib swim ? "
" What need ?
He can fly - fly as swiftly as the wind , " was the thick answer .
" He is mad ! "
muttered Peroo , under his breath .
" And he threw me aside like a bundle of dung - cakes .
Well , he will not know his death .
The boat can not live an hour here even if she strike nothing .
It is not good to look at death with a clear eye . "
He refreshed himself again from the tin box , squatted down in the bows of the reeling , pegged , and stitched craft , staring through the mist at the nothing that was there .
A warm drowsiness crept over Findlayson , the Chief Engineer , whose duty was with his bridge .
The heavy raindrops struck him with a thousand tingling little thrills , and the weight of all time since time was made hung heavy on his eyelids .
He thought and perceived that he was perfectly secure , for the water was so solid that a man could surely step out upon it , and , standing still with his legs apart to keep his balance - this was the most important point - would be borne with great and easy speed to the shore .
But yet a better plan came to him .
It needed only an exertion of will for the soul to hurl the body ashore as wind drives paper , to waft it kite - fashion to the bank .
Thereafter - the boat spun dizzily - suppose the high wind got under the freed body ?
Would it tower up like a kite and pitch headlong on the far - away sands , or would it duck about , beyond control , through all eternity ?
Findlayson gripped the gunnel to anchor himself , for it seemed that he was on the edge of taking the flight before he had settled all his plans .
Opium has more effect on the white man than the black .
Peroo was only comfortably indifferent to accidents .
" She can not live , " he grunted .
" Her seams open already .
If she were even a dinghy with oars we could have ridden it out ; but a box with holes is no good .
Finlinson Sahib , she fills . "
" Accha !
I am going away .
Come thou also . "
In his mind , Findlayson had already escaped from the boat , and was circling high in air to find a rest for the sole of his foot .
His body - he was really sorry for its gross helplessness - lay in the stern , the water rushing about its knees .
" How very ridiculous ! "
he said to himself from his eyrie - " that - is Findlayson - chief of the Kashi Bridge .
The poor beast is going to be drowned , too .
Drowned when it 's close to shore .
I 'm - I 'm on shore already .
Why does n't it come along ? "
To his intense disgust , he found his soul back in his body again , and that body spluttering and choking in deep water .
The pain of the reunion was atrocious , but it was necessary , also , to fight for the body .
He was conscious of grasping wildly at wet sand , and striding prodigiously , as one strides in a dream , to keep foothold in the swirling water , till at last he hauled himself clear of the hold of the river , and dropped , panting , on wet earth .
" Not this night , " said Peroo , in his ear .
" The Gods have protected us . "
The Lascar moved his feet cautiously , and they rustled among dried stumps .
" This is some island of last year 's indigo - crop , " he went on .
" We shall find no men here ; but have great care , Sahib ; all the snakes of a hundred miles have been flooded out .
Here comes the lightning , on the heels of the wind .
Now we shall be able to look ; but walk carefully . "
Findlayson was far and far beyond any fear of snakes , or indeed any merely human emotion .
He saw , after he had rubbed the water from his eyes , with an immense clearness , and trod , so it seemed to himself with world - encompassing strides .
Somewhere in the night of time he had built a bridge - a bridge that spanned illimitable levels of shining seas ; but the Deluge had swept it away , leaving this one island under heaven for Findlayson and his companion , sole survivors of the breed of Man .
An incessant lightning , forked and blue , showed all that there was to be seen on the little patch in the flood - a clump of thorn , a clump of swaying creaking bamboos , and a grey gnarled peepul overshadowing a Hindoo shrine , from whose dome floated a tattered red flag .
The holy man whose summer resting - place it was had long since abandoned it , and the weather had broken the red - daubed image of his god .
The two men stumbled , heavy - limbed and heavy - eyed , over the ashes of a brick - set cooking - place , and dropped down under the shelter of the branches , while the rain and river roared together .
The stumps of the indigo crackled , and there was a smell of cattle , as a huge and dripping Brahminee bull shouldered his way under the tree .
The flashes revealed the trident mark of Shiva on his flank , the insolence of head and hump , the luminous stag - like eyes , the brow crowned with a wreath of sodden marigold blooms , and the silky dewlap that almost swept the ground .
There was a noise behind him of other beasts coming up from the flood - line through the thicket , a sound of heavy feet and deep breathing .
" Here be more beside ourselves , " said Findlayson , his head against the treepole , looking through half - shut eyes , wholly at ease .
" Truly , " said Peroo , thickly , " and no small ones . "
" What are they , then ?
I do not see clearly . "
" The Gods .
Who else ?
Look ! "
" Ah , true !
The Gods surely - the Gods . "
Findlayson smiled as his head fell forward on his chest .
Peroo was eminently right .
After the Flood , who should be alive in the land except the Gods that made it - the Gods to whom his village prayed nightly - the Gods who were in all men 's mouths and about all men 's ways .
He could not raise his head or stir a finger for the trance that held him , and Peroo was smiling vacantly at the lightning .
The Bull paused by the shrine , his head lowered to the damp earth .
A green Parrot in the branches preened his wet wings and screamed against the thunder as the circle under the tree filled with the shifting shadows of beasts .
There was a black Buck at the Bull 's heels - such a Buck as Findlayson in his far - away life upon earth might have seen in dreams - a Buck with a royal head , ebon back , silver belly , and gleaming straight horns .
Beside him , her head bowed to the ground , the green eyes burning under the heavy brows , with restless tail switching the dead grass , paced a Tigress , full - bellied and deep - jowled .
The Bull crouched beside the shrine , and there leaped from the darkness a monstrous grey Ape , who seated himself man - wise in the place of the fallen image , and the rain spilled like jewels from the hair of his neck and shoulders .
Other shadows came and went behind the circle , among them a drunken Man flourishing staff and drinking - bottle .
Then a hoarse bellow broke out from near the ground .
" The flood lessens even now , " it cried .
" Hour by hour the water falls , and their bridge still stands ! "
" My bridge , " said Findlayson to himself " That must be very old work now .
What have the Gods to do with my bridge ? "
His eyes rolled in the darkness following the roar .
A Mugger - the blunt - nosed , ford - haunting Mugger of the Ganges - draggled herself before the beasts , lashing furiously to right and left with her tail .
" They have made it too strong for me .
In all this night I have only torn away a handful of planks .
The walls stand .
The towers stand .
They have chained my flood , and the river is not free any more .
Heavenly Ones , take this yoke away !
Give me clear water between bank and bank !
It is I , Mother Gunga , that speak .
The Justice of the Gods !
Deal me the Justice of the Gods ! "
" What said I ? "
whispered Peroo .
" This is in truth a Punchayet of the Gods .
Now we know that all the world is dead , save you and I , Sahib . "
The Parrot screamed and fluttered again , and the Tigress , her ears flat to her head , snarled wickedly .
Somewhere in the shadow , a great trunk and gleaming tusks swayed to and fro , and a low gurgle broke the silence that followed on the snarl .
" We be here , " said a deep voice , " the Great Ones .
One only and very many .
Shiv , my father , is here , with Indra .
Kali has spoken already .
Hanuman listens also . "
" Kashi is without her Kotwal to - night , " shouted the Man with the drinking - bottle , flinging his staff to the ground , while the island rang to the baying of hounds .
" Give her the Justice of the Gods . "
" Ye were still when they polluted my waters , " the great Crocodile bellowed .
" Ye made no sign when my river was trapped between the walls .
I had no help save my own strength , and that failed - the strength of Mother Gunga failed - before their guard - towers .
What could I do ?
I have done everything .
Finish now , Heavenly Ones ! "
" I brought the death ; I rode the spotted sick - ness from hut to hut of their workmen , and yet they would not cease . "
A nose - slitten , hide - worn Ass , lame , scissor - legged , and galled , limped forward .
" I cast the death at them out of my nostrils , but they would not cease . "
Peroo would have moved , but the opium lay heavy upon him .
" Bah ! "
he said , spitting .
" Here is Sitala herself ; Mata - the small - pox .
Has the Sahib a handkerchief to put over his face ? "
" Little help !
They fed me the corpses for a month , and I flung them out on my sand - bars , but their work went forward .
Demons they are , and sons of demons !
And ye left Mother Gunga alone for their fire - carriage to make a mock of The Justice of the Gods on the bridge - builders ! "
The Bull turned the cud in his mouth and answered slowly : " If the Justice of the Gods caught all who made a mock of holy things there would be many dark altars in the land , mother . "
" But this goes beyond a mock , " said the Tigress , darting forward a griping paw .
" Thou knowest , Shiv , and ye , too , Heavenly Ones ; ye know that they have defiled Gunga .
Surely they must come to the Destroyer .
Let Indra judge . "
The Buck made no movement as he answered : " How long has this evil been ?
" Three years , as men count years , " said the Mugger , close pressed to the earth .
" Does Mother Gunga die , then , in a year , that she is so anxious to see vengeance now ?
The deep sea was where she runs but yesterday , and to - morrow the sea shall cover her again as the Gods count that which men call time .
Can any say that this their bridge endures till to - morrow ? "
said the Buck .
There was a long hush , and in the clearing of the storm the full moon stood up above the dripping trees .
" Judge ye , then , " said the River , sullenly .
" I have spoken my shame .
The flood falls still .
I can do no more . "
" For my own part , " - it was the voice of the great Ape seated within the shrine - " it pleases me well to watch these men , remembering that I also builded no small bridge in the world 's youth . "
" They say , too , " snarled the Tiger , " that these men came of the wreck of thy armies , Hanuman , and therefore thou hast aided - " " They toil as my armies toiled in Lanka , and they believe that their toil endures .
Indra is too high , but Shiv , thou knowest how the land is threaded with their fire - carriages . "
" Yea , I know , " said the Bull .
" Their Gods instructed them in the matter . "
A laugh ran round the circle .
" Their Gods !
What should their Gods know ?
They were born yesterday , and those that made them are scarcely yet cold , " said the Mugger .
" To - morrow their Gods will die . "
" Ho ! "
said Peroo .
" Mother Gunga talks good talk .
I told that to the padre - sahib who preached on the Mombassa , and he asked the Burra Malum to put me in irons for a great rudeness . "
" Surely they make these things to please their Gods , " said the Bull again .
" Not altogether , " the Elephant rolled forth .
" It is for the profit of my mahajuns - my fat money - lenders that worship me at each new year , when they draw my image at the head of the account - books .
I , looking over their shoulders by lamplight , see that the names in the books are those of men in far places - for all the towns are drawn together by the fire - carriage , and the money comes and goes swiftly , and the account - books grow as fat as - myself .
And I , who am Ganesh of Good Luck , I bless my peoples . "
" They have changed the face of the land - which is my land .
They have killed and made new towns on my banks , " said the Mugger .
" It is but the shifting of a little dirt .
Let the dirt dig in the dirt if it pleases the dirt , " answered the Elephant .
" But afterwards ? "
said the Tiger .
" Afterwards they will see that Mother Gunga can avenge no insult , and they fall away from her first , and later from us all , one by one .
In the end , Ganesh , we are left with naked altars . "
The drunken Man staggered to his feet , and hiccupped vehemently .
" Kali lies .
My sister lies .
Also this my stick is the Kotwal of Kashi , and he keeps tally of my pilgrims .
When the time comes to worship Bhairon - and it is always time - the fire - carriages move one by one , and each bears a thousand pilgrims .
They do not come afoot any more , but rolling upon wheels , and my honour is increased . "
" Gunga , I have seen thy bed at Pryag black with the pilgrims , " said the Ape , leaning forward , " and but for the fire - carriage they would have come slowly and in fewer numbers .
Remember . "
" They come to me always , " Bhairon went on thickly .
" By day and night they pray to me , all the Common People in the fields and the roads .
Who is like Bhairon to - day ?
What talk is this of changing faiths ?
Is my staff Kotwal of Kashi for nothing ?
He keeps the tally , and he says that never were so many altars as today , and the fire - carriage serves them well .
Bhairon am I - Bhairon of the Common People , and the chiefest of the Heavenly Ones to - day .
Also my staff says - " " Peace , thou , " lowed the Bull .
" The worship of the schools is mine , and they talk very wisely , asking whether I be one or many , as is the delight of my people , and ye know what I am .
Kali , my wife , thou knowest also . "
" Yea , I know , " said the Tigress , with lowered head .
" Greater am I than Gunga also .
For ye know who moved the minds of men that they should count Gunga holy among the rivers .
Who die in that water - ye know how men say - come to us without punishment , and Gunga knows that the fire - carriage has borne to her scores upon scores of such anxious ones ; and Kali knows that she has held her chiefest festivals among the pilgrimages that are fed by the fire - carriage .
Who smote at Pooree , under the Image there , her thousands in a day and a night , and bound the sickness to the wheels of the fire - carriages , so that it ran from one end of the land to the other ?
Who but Kali ?
Before the fire - carriage came it was a heavy toil .
The fire - carriages have served thee well , Mother of Death .
But I speak for mine own altars , who am not Bhairon of the Common Folk , but Shiv .
Men go to and fro , making words and telling talk of strange Gods , and I listen .
Faith follows faith among my people in the schools , and I have no anger ; for when all words are said , and the new talk is ended , to Shiv men return at the last . "
" True .
It is true , " murmured Hanuman .
" To Shiv and to the others , mother , they return .
I creep from temple to temple in the North , where they worship one God and His Prophet ; and presently my image is alone within their shrines . "
" Small thanks , " said the Buck , turning his head slowly .
" I am that One and His Prophet also . "
" Even so , father , " said Hanuman .
" And to the South I go who am the oldest of the Gods as men know the Gods , and presently I touch the shrines of the New Faith and the Woman whom we know is hewn twelve - armed , and still they call her Mary . "
" Small thanks , brother , " said the Tigress .
" I am that Woman . "
" Even so , sister ; and I go West among the fire - carriages , and stand before the bridge - builders in many shapes , and because of me they change their faiths and are very wise .
Ho !
ho !
I am the builder of bridges , indeed - bridges between this and that , and each bridge leads surely to Us in the end .
Be content , Gunga .
Neither these men nor those that follow them mock thee at all . "
" Am I alone , then , Heavenly Ones ?
Shall I smooth out my flood lest unhappily I bear away their walls ?
Will Indra dry my springs in the hills and make me crawl humbly between their wharfs ?
Shall I bury me in the sand ere I offend ? "
" And all for the sake of a little iron bar with the fire - carriage atop .
Truly , Mother Gunga is always young ! "
said Ganesh the Elephant .
" A child had not spoken more foolishly .
Let the dirt dig in the dirt ere it return to the dirt .
I know only that my people grow rich and praise me .
Shiv has said that the men of the schools do not forget ; Bhairon is content for his crowd of the Common People ; and Hanuman laughs . "
" Surely I laugh , " said the Ape .
" My altars are few beside those of Ganesh or Bhairon , but the fire - carriages bring me new worshippers from beyond the Black Water - the men who believe that their God is toil .
I run before them beckoning , and they follow Hanuman . "
" Give them the toil that they desire , then , " said the River .
" Make a bar across my flood and throw the water back upon the bridge .
Once thou wast strong in Lanka , Hanuman .
Stoop and lift my bed . "
" Who gives life can take life . "
The Ape scratched in the mud with a long forefinger .
" And yet , who would profit by the killing ?
Very many would die . "
There came up from the water a snatch of a love - song such as the boys sing when they watch their cattle in the noon heats of late spring .
The Parrot screamed joyously , sidling along his branch with lowered head as the song grew louder , and in a patch of clear moonlight stood revealed the young herd , the darling of the Gopis , the idol of dreaming maids and of mothers ere their children are born Krishna the Well - beloved .
He stooped to knot up his long wet hair , and the Parrot fluttered to his shoulder .
" Fleeting and singing , and singing and fleeting , " hiccupped Bhairon .
" Those make thee late for the council , brother . "
" And then ? "
said Krishna , with a laugh , throwing back his head .
" Ye can do little without me or Karma here . "
He fondled the Parrot 's plumage and laughed again .
" What is this sitting and talking together ?
I heard Mother Gunga roaring in the dark , and so came quickly from a hut where I lay warm .
And what have ye done to Karma , that he is so wet and silent ?
And what does Mother Gunga here ?
Are the heavens full that ye must come paddling in the mud beast - wise ?
Karma , what do they do ? "
" Gunga has prayed for a vengeance on the bridge - builders , and Kali is with her .
Now she bids Hanuman whelm the bridge , that her honour may be made great , " cried the Parrot .
" I waited here , knowing that thou wouldst come , O my master !
" And the Heavenly Ones said nothing ?
Did Gunga and the Mother of Sorrows out - talk them ?
Did none speak for my people ? "
" Nay , " said Ganesh , moving uneasily from foot to foot ; " I said it was but dirt at play , and why should we stamp it flat ? "
" I was content to let them toil - well content , " said Hanuman .
" What had I to do with Gunga 's anger ? "
said the Bull .
" I am Bhairon of the Common Folk , and this my staff is Kotwal of all Kashi .
I spoke for the Common People . "
" Thou ? "
The young God 's eyes sparkled .
" Am I not the first of the Gods in their mouths to - day ? "
returned Bhairon , unabashed .
" For the sake of the Common People I said - very many wise things which I have now forgotten , but this my staff - " Krishna turned impatiently , saw the Mugger at his feet , and kneeling , slipped an arm round the cold neck .
" Mother , " he said gently , " get thee to thy flood again .
The matter is not for thee .
What harm shall thy honour take of this live dirt ?
Thou hast given them their fields new year after year , and by thy flood they are made strong .
They come all to thee at the last .
What need to slay them now ?
Have pity , mother , for a little - and it is only for a little . "
" If it be only for a little , " the slow beast began .
" Are they Gods , then ? "
Krishna returned with a laugh , his eyes looking into the dull eyes of the River .
" Be certain that it is only for a little .
The Heavenly Ones have heard thee , and presently justice will be done .
Go now , mother , to the flood again .
Men and cattle are thick on the waters - the banks fall - the villages melt because of thee . "
" But the bridge - the bridge stands . "
The Mugger turned grunting into the undergrowth as Krishna rose .
" It is ended , " said the Tigress , viciously .
" There is no more justice from the Heavenly Ones .
Ye have made shame and sport of Gunga , who asked no more than a few score lives . "
" Of my people - who lie under the leaf - roofs of the village yonder - of the young girls , and the young men who sing to them in the dark - of the child that will be born next morn - of that which was begotten to - night , " said Krishna .
" And when all is done , what profit ?
To - morrow sees them at work .
Ay , if ye swept the bridge out from end to end they would begin anew .
Hear me !
Bhairon is drunk always .
Hanuman mocks his people with new riddles . "
" Nay , but they are very old ones , " the Ape said , laughing .
" Shiv hears the talk of the schools and the dreams of the holy men ; Ganesh thinks only of his fat traders ; but I - I live with these my people , asking for no gifts , and so receiving them hourly . "
" And very tender art thou of thy people , " said the Tigress .
" They are my own .
The old women dream of me turning in their sleep ; the maids look and listen for me when they go to fill their lotahs by the river .
I walk by the young men waiting without the gates at dusk , and I call over my shoulder to the white - beards .
Ye know , Heavenly Ones , that I alone of us all walk upon the earth continually , and have no pleasure in our heavens so long as a green blade springs here , or there are two voices at twilight in the standing crops .
Wise are ye , but ye live far off ; forgetting whence ye came .
So do I not forget .
And the fire - carriage feeds your shrines , ye say ?
And the fire - carriages bring a thousand pilgrims where but ten came in the old years ?
True .
That is true , to - day . "
" But to - morrow they are dead , brother , " said Ganesh .
" Peace ! "
said the Bull , as Hanuman leaned forward again .
" And to - morrow , beloved - what of to - morrow ? "
" This only .
A new word creeping from mouth to mouth among the Common Folk - a word that neither man nor God can lay hold of - an evil word - a little lazy word among the Common Folk , saying ( and none know who set that word afoot ) that they weary of ye , Heavenly Ones . "
The Gods laughed together softly .
" And then , beloved , " they said .
" And to cover that weariness they , my people , will bring to thee , Shiv , and to thee , Ganesh , at first greater offerings and a louder noise of worship .
But the word has gone abroad , and , after , they will pay fewer dues to your fat Brahmins .
Next they will forget your altars , but so slowly that no man can say how his forgetfulness began . "
" I knew - I knew !
I spoke this also , but they would not hear , " said the Tigress .
" We should have slain - we should have slain ! "
" It is too late now .
Ye should have slain at the beginning when the men from across the water had taught our folk nothing .
Now my people see their work , and go away thinking .
They do not think of the Heavenly Ones altogether .
They think of the fire - carriage and the other things that the bridge - builders have done , and when your priests thrust forward hands asking alms , they give a little unwillingly .
That is the beginning , among one or two , or five or ten - for I , moving among my people , know what is in their hearts . "
" And the end , Jester of the Gods ?
What shall the end be ? "
said Ganesh .
" The end shall be as it was in the beginning , O slothful son of Shiv !
The flame shall die upon the altars and the prayer upon the tongue till ye become little Gods again - Gods of the jungle - names that the hunters of rats and noosers of dogs whisper in the thicket and among the caves - rag - Gods , pot Godlings of the tree , and the village - mark , as ye were at the beginning .
That is the end , Ganesh , for thee , and for Bhairon - Bhairon of the Common People . "
" It is very far away , " grunted Bhairon .
" Also , it is a lie . "
" Many women have kissed Krishna .
They told him this to cheer their own hearts when the grey hairs came , and he has told us the tale , " said the Bull , below his breath .
" Their Gods came , and we changed them .
I took the Woman and made her twelve - armed .
So shall we twist all their Gods , " said Hanuman .
" Their Gods !
This is no question of their Gods - one or three - man or woman .
The matter is with the people .
I move , and not the Gods of the bridge - builders , " said Krishna .
" So be it .
I have made a man worship the fire - carriage as it stood still breathing smoke , and he knew not that he worshipped me , " said Hanuman the Ape .
" They will only change a little the names of their Gods .
I shall lead the builders of the bridges as of old ; Shiv shall be worshipped in the schools by such as doubt and despise their fellows ; Ganesh shall have his mahajuns , and Bhairon the donkey - drivers , the pilgrims , and the sellers of toys .
Beloved , they will do no more than change the names , and that we have seen a thousand times . "
" Surely they will do no more than change the names , " echoed Ganesh ; but there was an uneasy movement among the Gods .
" They will change more than the names .
Me alone they can not kill , so long as a maiden and a man meet together or the spring follows the winter rains .
Heavenly Ones , not for nothing have I walked upon the earth .
My people know not now what they know ; but I , who live with them , I read their hearts .
Great Kings , the beginning of the end is born already .
The fire - carriages shout the names of new Gods that are not the old under new names .
Drink now and eat greatly !
Bathe your faces in the smoke of the altars before they grow cold !
Take dues and listen to the cymbals and the drums , Heavenly Ones , while yet there are flowers and songs .
As men count time the end is far off ; but as we who know reckon it is to - day .
I have spoken . "
The young God ceased , and his brethren looked at each other long in silence .
" This I have not heard before , " Peroo whispered in his companion 's ear .
" And yet sometimes , when I oiled the brasses in the engine - room of the Goorkha , I have wondered if our priests were so wise - so wise .
The day is coming , Sahib .
They will be gone by the morning . "
A yellow light broadened in the sky , and the tone of the river changed as the darkness withdrew .
Suddenly the Elephant trumpeted aloud as though man had goaded him .
" Let Indra judge .
Father of all , speak thou !
What of the things we have heard ?
Has Krishna lied indeed ?
Or - " " Ye know , " said the Buck , rising to his feet .
" Ye know the Riddle of the Gods .
When Brahm ceases to dream , the Heavens and the Hells and Earth disappear .
Be content .
Brahm dreams still .
The dreams come and go , and the nature of the dreams changes , but still Brahm dreams .
Krishna has walked too long upon earth , and yet I love him the more for the tale he has told .
The Gods change , beloved - all save One ! "
" Ay , all save one that makes love in the hearts of men , " said Krishna , knotting his girdle .
" It is but a little time to wait , and ye shall know if I lie .
Truly it is but a little time , as thou sayest , and we shall know .
Get thee to thy huts again , beloved , and make sport for the young things , for still Brahm dreams .
Go , my children !
Brahm dreams and till he wakes the Gods die not . "
" Whither went they ? "
said the Lascar , awe - struck , shivering a little with the cold .
" God knows ! "
said Findlayson .
The river and the island lay in full daylight now , and there was never mark of hoof or pug on the wet earth under the peepul .
Only a parrot screamed in the branches , bringing down showers of water - drops as he fluttered his wings .
" Up !
We are cramped with cold !
Has the opium died out .
Canst thou move , Sahib ? "
Findlayson staggered to his feet and shook himself .
His bead swam and ached , but the work of the opium was over , and , as he sluiced his forehead in a pool , the Chief Engineer of the Kashi Bridge was wondering how he had managed to fall upon the island , what chances the day offered of return , and , above all , how his work stood .
" Peroo , I have forgotten much I was under the guard - tower watching the river ; and then - Did the flood sweep us away ? "
" No .
The boats broke loose , Sahib , and , " ( if the Sahib had forgotten about the opium , decidedly Peroo would not remind him ) " in striving to retie them , so it seemed to me but it was dark - a rope caught the Sahib and threw him upon a boat .
Considering that we two , with Hitchcock Sahib , built , as it were , that bridge , I came also upon the boat , which came riding on horseback , as it were , on the nose of this island , and so , splitting , cast us ashore .
I made a great cry when the boat left the wharf and without doubt Hitchcock Sahib will come for us .
As for the bridge , so many have died in the building that it can not fall . "
A fierce sun , that drew out all the smell of the sodden land , had followed the storm , and in that clear light there was no room for a man to think of the dreams of the dark .
Findlayson stared upstream , across the blaze of moving water , till his eyes ached .
There was no sign of any bank to the Ganges , much less of a bridge - line .
" We came down far , " he said .
" It was wonderful that we were not drowned a hundred times . "
" That was the least of the wonder , for no man dies before his time .
I have seen Sydney , I have seen London , and twenty great ports , but , " - Peroo looked at the damp , discoloured shrine under the peepul - " never man has seen that we saw here . "
" What ? "
" Has the Sahib forgotten ; or do we black men only see the Gods ? "
" There was a fever upon me . "
Findlayson was still looking uneasily across the water .
" It seemed that the island was full of beasts and men talking , but I do not remember .
A boat could live in this water now , I think . "
" Oho !
Then it is true .
' When Brahm ceases to dream , the Gods die . '
Now I know , indeed , what he meant .
Once , too , the guru said as much to me ; but then I did not understand .
Now I am wise . "
" What ? "
said Findlayson , over his shoulder .
Peroo went on as if he were talking to himself " Six - seven - ten monsoons since , I was watch on the fo'c'sle of the Rewah - the Kumpani 's big boat - and there was a big tufan ; green and black water beating , and I held fast to the life - lines , choking under the waters .
Then I thought of the Gods - of Those whom we saw to - night , " - he stared curiously at Findlayson 's back , but the white man was looking across the flood .
" Yes , I say of Those whom we saw this night past , and I called upon Them to protect me .
And while I prayed , still keeping my lookout , a big wave came and threw me forward upon the ring of the great black bow - anchor , and the Rewah rose high and high , leaning towards the left - hand side , and the water drew away from beneath her nose , and I lay upon my belly , holding the ring , and looking down into those great deeps .
Then I thought , even in the face of death : If I lose hold I die , and for me neither the Rewah nor my place by the galley where the rice is cooked , nor Bombay , nor Calcutta , nor even London , will be any more for me .
' How shall I be sure , ' I said , ' that the Gods to whom I pray will abide at all ? '
This I thought , and the Rewah dropped her nose as a hammer falls , and all the sea came in and slid me backwards along the fo'c'sle and over the break of the fo'c'sle , and I very badly bruised my shin against the donkey - engine : but I did not die , and I have seen the Gods .
They are good for live men , but for the dead ... .
They have spoken Themselves .
Therefore , when I come to the village I will beat the guru for talking riddles which are no riddles .
When Brahm ceases to dream the Gods go . "
" Look up - stream .
The light blinds .
Is there smoke yonder ? "
Peroo shaded his eyes with his hands .
" He is a wise man and quick .
Hitchcock Sahib would not trust a rowboat .
He has borrowed the Rao Sahib 's steam - launch , and comes to look for us .
I have always said that there should have been a steam - launch on the bridge works for us . "
The territory of the Rao of Baraon lay within ten miles of the bridge ; and Findlayson and Hitchcock had spent a fair portion of their scanty leisure in playing billiards and shooting blackbuck with the young man .
He had been bearded by an English tutor of sporting tastes for some five or six years , and was now royally wasting the revenues accumulated during his minority by the Indian Government .
His steam - launch , with its silver - plated rails , striped silk awning , and mahogany decks , was a new toy which Findlayson had found horribly in the way when the Rao came to look at the bridge works .
" It 's great luck , " murmured Findlayson , but he was none the less afraid , wondering what news might be of the bridge .
The gaudy blue - and - white funnel came downstream swiftly .
They could see Hitchcock in the bows , with a pair of opera - glasses , and his face was unusually white .
Then Peroo hailed , and the launch made for the tail of the island .
The Rao Sahib , in tweed shooting - suit and a seven - hued turban , waved his royal hand , and Hitchcock shouted .
But he need have asked no questions , for Findlayson 's first demand was for his bridge .
" All serene !
' Gad , I never expected to see you again , Findlayson .
You 're seven koss downstream .
Yes ; there 's not a stone shifted anywhere ; but how are you ?
I borrowed the Rao Sahib 's launch , and he was good enough to come along .
Jump in .
Ah , Finlinson , you are very well , eh ?
That was most unprecedented calamity last night , eh ?
My royal palace , too , it leaks like the devil , and the crops will also be short all about my country .
Now you shall back her out , Hitchcock .
I - I do not understand steam - engines .
You are wet ?
You are cold , Finlinson ?
I have some things to eat here , and you will take a good drink . "
" I 'm immensely grateful , Rao Sahib .
I believe you 've saved my life .
How did Hitchcock - " " Oho !
His hair was upon end .
He rode to me in the middle of the night and woke me up in the arms of Morpheus .
I was most truly concerned , Finlinson , so I came too .
My head - priest he is very angry just now .
We will go quick , Mister Hitchcock .
I am due to attend at twelve forty - five in the state temple , where we sanctify some new idol .
If not so I would have asked you to spend the day with me .
They are dam - bore , these religious ceremonies , Finlinson , eh ? "
Peroo , well known to the crew , had possessed himself of the inlaid wheel , and was taking the launch craftily up - stream .
But while he steered he was , in his mind , handling two feet of partially untwisted wire - rope ; and the back upon which he beat was the back of his guru .
ip the pen of a Frank Belknap Long into a bottle of ink and the result is always bound to be a scintillating piece of brilliant imaginative science fiction .
And he 's done it again in the tortured story of Sally .
the calm man by ... Frank Belknap Long Sally watched the molten gold glow in the sky .
Then knew she would not see her son and her husband ever again on Earth .
Sally Anders had never really thought of herself as a wallflower .
A girl could be shy , could n't she , and still be pretty enough to attract and hold men ?
Only this morning she had drawn an admiring look from the milkman and a wolf cry from Jimmy on the corner , with his newspapers and shiny new bike .
What if the milkman was crowding sixty and wore thick - lensed glasses ?
What if Jimmy was only seventeen ?
A male was a male , and a glance was a glance .
Why , if I just primp a little more , Sally told herself , I 'll be irresistible .
Hair ribbons and perfume , a mirror tilted at just the right angle , an invitation to a party on the dresser - what more did a girl need ?
" Dinner , Sally ! "
came echoing up from the kitchen .
" Do you want to be late , child ? "
Sally had no intention of being late .
Tonight she 'd see him across a crowded room and her heart would skip a beat .
He 'd look at her and smile , and come straight toward her with his shoulders squared .
There was always one night in a girl 's life that stands above all other nights .
One night when the moon shone bright and clear and the clock on the wall went tick tock , tick tock , tick tock .
One night when each tick said , " You 're beautiful !
Really beautiful ! "
Giving her hair a final pat Sally smiled at herself in the mirror .
In the bathroom the water was still running and the perfumed bath soap still spread its aromatic sweet odor through the room .
Sally went into the bathroom and turned off the tap before going downstairs to the kitchen .
" My girl looks radiant tonight ! "
Uncle Ben said , smiling at her over his corned beef and cabbage .
Sally blushed and lowered her eyes .
" Ben , you 're making her nervous , " Sally 's mother said , laughing .
Sally looked up and met her uncle 's stare , her eyes defiant .
" I 'm not bad - looking whatever you may think , " she said .
" Oh , now , Sally , " Uncle Ben protested .
" No sense in getting on a high horse .
Tonight you may find a man who just wo n't be able to resist you . "
" Maybe I will and maybe I wo n't , " Sally said .
" You 'd be surprised if I did , would n't you ? "
It was Uncle Ben 's turn to lower his eyes .
" I 'll tell the world you 've inherited your mother 's looks , Sally , " he said .
" But a man has to pride himself on something .
My defects of character are pretty bad .
But no one has ever accused me of dishonesty . "
Sally folded her napkin and rose stiffly from the table .
" Good night , Uncle , " she said .
When Sally arrived at the party every foot of floor space was taken up by dancing couples and the reception room was so crowded that , as each new guest was announced , a little ripple of displeasure went through the men in midnight blue and the women in Nile green and lavender .
For a moment Sally did not move , just stood staring at the dancing couples , half - hidden by one of the potted palms that framed the sides of the long room .
Moonlight silvered her hair and touched her white throat and arms with a caress so gentle that simply by closing her eyes she could fancy herself already in his arms .
Moonlight from tall windows flooding down , turning the dancing guests into pirouetting ghosts in diaphanous blue and green , scarlet and gold .
Close your eyes , Sally , close them tight !
Now open them !
That 's it ...
Slowly , slowly ...
He came out of nothingness into the light and was right beside her suddenly .
He was tall , but not too tall .
His face was tanned mahogany brown , and his eyes were clear and very bright .
And he stood there looking at her steadily until her mouth opened and a little gasp flew out .
He took her into his arms without a word and they started to dance ...
They were still dancing when he asked her to be his wife .
" You 'll marry me , of course , " he said .
" We have n't too much time .
The years go by so swiftly , like great white birds at sea . "
They were very close when he asked her , but he made no attempt to kiss her .
They went right on dancing and while he waited for her answer he talked about the moon ... " When the lights go out and the music stops the moon will remain , " he said .
" It raises tides on the Earth , it inflames the minds and hearts of men .
There are cyclic rhythms which would set a stone to dreaming and desiring on such a night as this . "
He stopped dancing abruptly and looked at her with calm assurance .
" You will marry me , wo n't you ? "
he asked .
" Allowing for a reasonable margin of error I seriously doubt if I could be happy with any of these other women .
I was attracted to you the instant I saw you . "
A girl who has never been asked before , who has drawn only one lone wolf cry from a newsboy could hardly be expected to resist such an offer .
Do n't resist , Sally .
He 's strong and tall and extremely good - looking .
He knows what he wants and makes up his mind quickly .
Surely a man so resolute must make enough money to support a wife .
" Yes , " Sally breathed , snuggling close to him .
" Oh , yes ! "
She paused a moment , then said , " You may kiss me now if you wish , my darling . "
He straightened and frowned a little , and looked away quickly .
" That can wait , " he said .
They were married a week later and went to live on an elm - shaded street just five blocks from where Sally was born .
The cottage was small , white and attractively decorated inside and out .
But Sally changed the curtains , as all women must , and bought some new furniture on the installment plan .
The neighbors were friendly folk who knew her husband as Mr. James Rand , an energetic young insurance broker who would certainly carve a wider swath for himself in his chosen profession now that he had so charming a wife .
Ten months later the first baby came .
Lying beneath cool white sheets in the hospital Sally looked at the other women and felt so deliriously happy she wanted to cry .
It was a beautiful baby and it cuddled close to her heart , its smallness a miracle in itself .
The other husbands came in and sat beside their wives , holding on tight to their happiness .
There were flowers and smiles , whispers that explored bright new worlds of tenderness and rejoicing .
Out in the corridor the husbands congratulated one another and came in smelling of cigar smoke .
" Have a cigar !
That 's right .
Eight pounds at birth .
That 's unusual , is n't it ?
Brightest kid you ever saw .
Knew his old man right off . "
He was beside her suddenly , standing straight and still in shadows .
" Oh , darling , " she whispered .
" Why did you wait ?
It 's been three whole days . "
" Three days ? "
he asked , leaning forward to stare down at his son .
" Really !
It did n't seem that long . "
" Where were you ?
You did n't even phone ! "
" Sometimes it 's difficult to phone , " he said slowly , as if measuring his words .
" You have given me a son .
That pleases me very much . "
A coldness touched her heart and a despair took hold of her .
" It pleases you !
Is that all you can say ?
You stand there looking at me as if I were a - a patient ... " " A patient ? "
His expression grew quizzical .
" Just what do you mean , Sally ? "
" You said you were pleased .
If a patient is ill her doctor hopes that she will get well .
He is pleased when she does .
If a woman has a baby a doctor will say , ' I 'm so pleased .
The baby is doing fine .
You do n't have to worry about him .
I 've put him on the scales and he 's a bouncing , healthy boy . ' "
" Medicine is a sane and wise profession , " Sally 's husband said .
" When I look at my son that is exactly what I would say to the mother of my son .
He is healthy and strong .
You have pleased me , Sally . "
He bent as he spoke and picked Sally 's son up .
He held the infant in the crook of his arm , smiling down at it .
" A healthy male child , " he said .
" His hair will come in thick and black .
Soon he will speak , will know that I am his father . "
He ran his palm over the baby 's smooth head , opened its mouth gently with his forefinger and looked inside .
Sally rose on one elbow , her tormented eyes searching his face .
" He 's your child , your son ! "
she sobbed .
" A woman has a child and her husband comes and puts his arms around her .
He holds her close .
If they love each other they are so happy , so very happy , they break down and cry . "
" I am too pleased to do anything so fantastic , Sally , " he said .
" When a child is born no tears should be shed by its parents .
I have examined the child and I am pleased with it .
Does not that content you ? "
" No , it does n't ! "
Sally almost shrieked .
" Why do you stare at your own son as if you 'd never seen a baby before ?
He is n't a mechanical toy .
He 's our own darling , adorable little baby .
Our child !
How can you be so inhumanly calm ? "
He frowned , put the baby down .
" There is a time for love - making and a time for parenthood , " he said .
" Parenthood is a serious responsibility .
That is where medicine comes in , surgery .
If a child is not perfect there are emergency measures which can be taken to correct the defect . "
Sally 's mouth went suddenly dry .
" Perfect !
What do you mean , Jim ?
Is there something wrong with Tommy ? "
" I do n't think so , " her husband said .
" His grasp is firm and strong .
He has good hearing and his eyesight appears to be all that could be desired .
Did you notice how his eyes followed me every moment ? "
" I was n't looking at his eyes ! "
Sally whispered , her voice tight with alarm .
" Why are you trying to frighten me , Jim ?
If Tommy was n't a normal , healthy baby do you imagine for one instant they would have placed him in my arms ? "
" That is a very sound observation , " Sally 's husband said .
" Truth is truth , but to alarm you at a time like this would be unnecessarily cruel . "
" Where does that put you ? "
" I simply spoke my mind as the child 's father .
I had to speak as I did because of my natural concern for the health of our child .
Do you want me to stay and talk to you , Sally ? "
Sally shook her head .
" No , Jim .
I wo n't let you torture me any more . "
Sally drew the baby into her arms again and held it tightly .
" I 'll scream if you stay ! "
she warned .
" I 'll become hysterical unless you leave . "
" Very well , " her husband said .
" I 'll come back tomorrow . "
He bent as he spoke and kissed her on the forehead .
His lips were ice cold .
For eight years Sally sat across the table from her husband at breakfast , her eyes fixed upon a nothingness on the green - blue wall at his back .
Calm he remained even while eating .
The eggs she placed before him he cracked methodically with a knife and consumed behind a tilted newspaper , taking now an assured sip of coffee , now a measured glance at the clock .
The presence of his young son bothered him not at all .
Tommy could be quiet or noisy , in trouble at school , or with an A for good conduct tucked with his report card in his soiled leather zipper jacket .
It was always : " Eat slowly , my son .
Never gulp your food .
Be sure to take plenty of exercise today .
Stay in the sun as much as possible . "
Often Sally wanted to shriek : " Be a father to him !
A real father !
Get down on the floor and play with him .
Shoot marbles with him , spin one of his tops .
Remember the toy locomotive you gave him for Christmas after I got hysterical and screamed at you ?
Remember the beautiful little train ?
Get it out of the closet and wreck it accidentally .
He 'll warm up to you then .
He 'll be broken - hearted , but he 'll feel close to you , then you 'll know what it means to have a son ! "
Often Sally wanted to fly at him , beat with her fists on his chest .
But she never did .
You ca n't warm a stone by slapping it , Sally .
You 'd only bruise yourself .
A stone is neither cruel nor tender .
You 've married a man of stone , Sally .
He has n't missed a day at the office in eight years .
She 'd never visited the office but he was always there to answer when she phoned .
" I 'm very busy , Sally .
What did you say ?
You 've bought a new hat ?
I 'm sure it will look well on you , Sally .
What did you say ?
Tommy got into a fight with a new boy in the neighborhood ?
You must take better care of him , Sally . "
There are patterns in every marriage .
When once the mold has set , a few strange behavior patterns must be accepted as a matter of course .
" I 'll drop in at the office tomorrow , darling ! "
Sally had promised right after the breakfast pattern had become firmly established .
The desire to see where her husband worked had been from the start a strong , bright flame in her .
But he asked her to wait a while before visiting his office .
A strong will can dampen the brightest flame , and when months passed and he kept saying ' no , ' Sally found herself agreeing with her husband 's suggestion that the visit be put off indefinitely .
Snuff a candle and it stays snuffed .
A marriage pattern once established requires a very special kind of re - kindling .
Sally 's husband refused to supply the needed spark .
Whenever Sally had an impulse to turn her steps in the direction of the office a voice deep in her mind seemed to whisper : " No sense in it , Sally .
Stay away .
He 's been mean and spiteful about it all these years .
Do n't give in to him now by going . "
Besides , Tommy took up so much of her time .
A growing boy was always a problem and Tommy seemed to have a special gift for getting into things because he was so active .
And he went through his clothes , wore out his shoes almost faster than she could replace them .
Right now Tommy was playing in the yard .
Sally 's eyes came to a focus upon him , crouching by a hole in the fence which kindly old Mrs. Wallingford had erected as a protection against the prying inquisitiveness of an eight - year - old determined to make life miserable for her .
A thrice - widowed neighbor of seventy without a spiteful hair in her head could put up with a boy who rollicked and yelled perhaps .
But peep - hole spying was another matter .
Sally muttered : " Enough of that ! "
and started for the kitchen door .
Just as she reached it the telephone rang .
Sally went quickly to the phone and lifted the receiver .
The instant she pressed it to her ear she recognized her husband 's voice - or thought she did .
" Sally , come to the office ! "
came the voice , speaking in a hoarse whisper .
" Hurry - or it will be too late !
Hurry , Sally ! "
Sally turned with a startled gasp , looked out through the kitchen window at the autumn leaves blowing crisp and dry across the lawn .
As she looked the scattered leaves whirled into a flurry around Tommy , then lifted and went spinning over the fence and out of sight .
The dread in her heart gave way to a sudden , bleak despair .
As she turned from the phone something within her withered , became as dead as the drifting leaves with their dark autumnal mottlings .
She did not even pause to call Tommy in from the yard .
She rushed upstairs , then down again , gathering up her hat , gloves and purse , making sure she had enough change to pay for the taxi .
The ride to the office was a nightmare ...
Tall buildings swept past , facades of granite as gray as the leaden skies of mid - winter , beehives of commerce where men and women brushed shoulders without touching hands .
Autumnal leaves blowing , and the gray buildings sweeping past .
Despite Tommy , despite everything there was no shining vision to warm Sally from within .
A cottage must be lived in to become a home and Sally had never really had a home .
One - night stand !
It was n't an expression she 'd have used by choice , but it came unbidden into her mind .
If you live for nine years with a man who ca n't relax and be human , who ca n't be warm and loving you 'll begin eventually to feel you might as well live alone .
Each day had been like a lonely sentinel outpost in a desert waste for Sally .
She thought about Tommy ... Tommy was n't in the least like his father when he came racing home from school , hair tousled , books dangling from a strap .
Tommy would raid the pantry with unthinking zest , invite other boys in to look at the Westerns on TV , and trade black eyes for marbles with a healthy pugnacity .
Up to a point Tommy was normal , was healthy .
But she had seen mirrored in Tommy 's pale blue eyes the same abnormal calmness that was always in his father 's , and the look of derisive withdrawal which made him seem always to be staring down at her from a height .
And it filled her with terror to see that Tommy 's mood could change as abruptly and terrifyingly cold ... Tommy , her son .
Tommy , no longer boisterous and eager , but sitting in a corner with his legs drawn up , a faraway look in his eyes .
Tommy seeming to look right through her , into space .
Tommy and Jim exchanging silent understanding glances .
Tommy roaming through the cottage , staring at his toys with frowning disapproval .
Tommy drawing back when she tried to touch him .
Tommy , Tommy , come back to me !
How often she had cried out in her heart when that coldness came between them .
Tommy drawing strange figures on the floor with a piece of colored chalk , then erasing them quickly before she could see them , refusing to let her enter his secret child 's world .
Tommy picking up the cat and stroking its fur mechanically , while he stared out through the kitchen window at rusty blackbirds on the wing ... " This is the address you gave me , lady .
Sixty - seven Vine Street , " the cab driver was saying .
Sally shivered , remembering her husband 's voice on the phone , remembering where she was ... " Come to the office , Sally !
Hurry , hurry - or it will be too late ! "
Too late for what ?
Too late to recapture a happiness she had never possessed ?
" This is it , lady ! "
the cab driver insisted .
" Do you want me to wait ? "
" No , " Sally said , fumbling for her change purse .
She descended from the taxi , paid the driver and hurried across the pavement to the big office building with its mirroring frontage of plate glass and black onyx tiles .
The firm 's name was on the directory board in the lobby , white on black in beautifully embossed lettering .
White for hope , and black for despair , mourning ...
The elevator opened and closed and Sally was whisked up eight stories behind a man in a checkered suit .
" Eighth floor ! "
Sally whispered , in sudden alarm .
The elevator jolted to an abrupt halt and the operator swung about to glare at her .
" You should have told me when you got on , Miss ! "
he complained .
" Sorry , " Sally muttered , stumbling out into the corridor .
How horrible it must be to go to business every day , she thought wildly .
To sit in an office , to thumb through papers , to bark orders , to be a machine .
Sally stood very still for an instant , startled , feeling her sanity threatened by the very absurdity of the thought .
People who worked in offices could turn for escape to a cottage in the sunset 's glow , when they were set free by the moving hands of a clock .
There could be a fierce joy at the thought of deliverance , at the prospect of going home at five o'clock .
But for Sally was the brightness , the deliverance withheld .
The corridor was wide and deserted and the black tiles with their gold borders seemed to converge upon her , hemming her into a cool magnificence as structurally somber as the architectural embellishments of a costly mausoleum .
She found the office with her surface mind , working at cross - purposes with the confusion and swiftly mounting dread which made her footsteps falter , her mouth go dry .
Steady , Sally !
Here 's the office , here 's the door .
Turn the knob and get it over with ... Sally opened the door and stepped into a small , deserted reception room .
Beyond the reception desk was a gate , and beyond the gate a large central office branched off into several smaller offices .
Sally paused only an instant .
It seemed quite natural to her that a business office should be deserted so late in the afternoon .
She crossed the reception room to the gate , passed through it , utter desperation giving her courage .
Something within her whispered that she had only to walk across the central office , open the first door she came to to find her husband ...
The first door combined privacy with easy accessibility .
The instant she opened the door she knew that she had been right to trust her instincts .
This was his office ...
He was sitting at a desk by the window , a patch of sunset sky visible over his right shoulder .
His elbows rested on the desk and his hands were tightly locked as if he had just stopped wringing them .
He was looking straight at her , his eyes wide and staring .
" Jim ! "
Sally breathed .
" Jim , what 's wrong ? "
He did not answer , did not move or attempt to greet her in any way .
There was no color at all in his face .
His lips were parted , his white teeth gleamed .
And he was more stiffly controlled than usual - a control so intense that for once Sally felt more alarm than bitterness .
There was a rising terror in her now .
And a slowly dawning horror .
The sunlight streamed in , gleaming redly on his hair , his shoulders .
He seemed to be the center of a flaming red ball ...
He sent for you , Sally .
Why does n't he get up and speak to you , if only to pour salt on the wounds you 've borne for eight long years ?
Poor Sally !
You wanted a strong , protective , old - fashioned husband .
What have you got instead ?
Sally went up to the desk and looked steadily into eyes so calm and blank that they seemed like the eyes of a child lost in some dreamy wonderland barred forever to adult understanding .
For an instant her terror ebbed and she felt almost reassured .
Then she made the mistake of bending more closely above him , brushing his right elbow with her sleeve .
That single light woman 's touch unsettled him .
He started to fall , sideways and very fast .
Topple a dead weight and it crashes with a swiftness no opposing force can counter - balance .
It did Sally no good to clutch frantically at his arm as he fell , to tug and jerk at the slackening folds of his suit .
The heaviness of his descending bulk dragged him down and away from her , the awful inertia of lifeless flesh .
He thudded to the floor and rolled over on his back , seeming to shrink as Sally widened her eyes upon him .
He lay in a grotesque sprawl at her feet , his jaw hanging open on the gaping black orifice of his mouth ... Sally might have screamed and gone right on screaming - if she had been a different kind of woman .
On seeing her husband lying dead her impulse might have been to throw herself down beside him , give way to her grief in a wild fit of sobbing .
But where there was no grief there could be no sobbing ... One thing only she did before she left .
She unloosed the collar of the unmoving form on the floor and looked for the small brown mole she did not really expect to find .
The mole she knew to be on her husband 's shoulder , high up on the left side .
She had noticed things that made her doubt her sanity ; she needed to see the little black mole to reassure her ... She had noticed the difference in the hair - line , the strange slant of the eyebrows , the crinkly texture of the skin where it should have been smooth ... Something was wrong ... horribly , weirdly wrong ...
Even the hands of the sprawled form seemed larger and hairier than the hands of her husband .
Nevertheless it was important to be sure ...
The absence of the mole clinched it .
Sally crouched beside the body , carefully readjusting the collar .
Then she got up and walked out of the office .
Some homecomings are joyful , others cruel .
Sitting in the taxi , clenching and unclenching her hands , Sally had no plan that could be called a plan , no hope that was more than a dim flickering in a vast wasteland , bleak and unexplored .
But it was strange how one light burning brightly in a cottage window could make even a wasteland seem small , could shrink and diminish it until it became no more than a patch of darkness that anyone with courage might cross .
The light was in Tommy 's room and there was a whispering behind the door .
Sally could hear the whispering as she tiptoed upstairs , could see the light streaming out into the hall .
She paused for an instant at the head of the stairs , listening .
There were two voices in the room , and they were talking back and forth .
Sally tiptoed down the hall , stood with wildly beating heart just outside the door .
" She knows now , Tommy , " the deepest of the two voices said .
" We are very close , your mother and I.
She knows now that I sent her to the office to find my ' stand in . '
Oh , it 's an amusing term , Tommy - an Earth term we 'd hardly use on Mars .
But it 's a term your mother would understand . "
A pause , then the voice went on , " You see , my son , it has taken me eight years to repair the ship .
And in eight years a man can wither up and die by inches if he does not have a growing son to go adventuring with him in the end . "
" Adventuring , father ? "
" You have read a good many Earth books , my son , written especially for boys .
Treasure Island , Robinson Crusoe , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under The Sea .
What paltry books they are !
But in them there is a little of the fire , a little of the glow of our world . "
" No , father .
I started them but I threw them away for I did not like them . "
" As you and I must throw away all Earth things , my son .
I tried to be kind to your mother , to be a good husband as husbands go on Earth .
But how could I feel proud and strong and reckless by her side ?
How could I share her paltry joys and sorrows , chirp with delight as a sparrow might chirp hopping about in the grass ?
Can an eagle pretend to be a sparrow ?
Can the thunder muffle its voice when two white - crested clouds collide in the shining depths of the night sky ? "
" You tried , father .
You did your best . "
" Yes , my son , I did try .
But if I had attempted to feign emotions I did not feel your mother would have seen through the pretense .
She would then have turned from me completely .
Without her I could not have had you , my son . "
" And now , father , what will we do ? "
" Now the ship has been repaired and is waiting for us .
Every day for eight years I went to the hill and worked on the ship .
It was badly wrecked , my son , but now my patience has been rewarded , and every damaged astronavigation instrument has been replaced . "
" You never went to the office , father ?
You never went at all ? "
" No , my son .
My stand - in worked at the office in my place .
I instilled in your mother 's mind an intense dislike and fear of the office to keep her from ever coming face to face with the stand - in .
She might have noticed the difference .
But I had to have a stand - in , as a safeguard .
Your mother might have gone to the office despite the mental block . "
" She 's gone now , father .
Why did you send for her ? "
" To avoid what she would call a scene , my son .
That I could not endure .
I had the stand - in summon her on the office telephone , then I withdrew all vitality from it .
She will find it quite lifeless .
But it does not matter now .
When she returns we will be gone . "
" Was constructing the stand - in difficult , father ? "
" Not for me , my son .
On Mars we have many androids , each constructed to perform a specific task .
Some are ingenious beyond belief - or would seem so to Earthmen . "
There was a pause , then the weaker of the two voices said , " I will miss my mother .
She tried to make me happy .
She tried very hard . "
" You must be brave and strong , my son .
We are eagles , you and I.
Your mother is a sparrow , gentle and dun - colored .
I shall always remember her with tenderness .
You want to go with me , do n't you ? "
" Yes , father .
Oh , yes ! "
" Then come , my son .
We must hurry .
Your mother will be returning any minute now . "
Sally stood motionless , listening to the voices like a spectator sitting before a television screen .
A spectator can see as well as hear , and Sally could visualize her son 's pale , eager face so clearly there was no need for her to move forward into the room .
She could not move .
And nothing on Earth could have wrenched a tortured cry from her .
Grief and shock may paralyze the mind and will , but Sally 's will was not paralyzed .
It was as if the thread of her life had been cut , with only one light left burning .
Tommy was that light .
He would never change .
He would go from her forever .
But he would always be her son .
The door of Tommy 's room opened and Tommy and his father came out into the hall .
Sally stepped back into shadows and watched them walk quickly down the hall to the stairs , their voices low , hushed .
She heard them descend the stairs , their footsteps dwindle , die away into silence ... You 'll see a light , Sally , a great glow lighting up the sky .
The ship must be very beautiful .
For eight years he labored over it , restoring it with all the shining gifts of skill and feeling at his command .
He was calm toward you , but not toward the ship , Sally - the ship which will take him back to Mars !
How is it on Mars , she wondered .
My son , Tommy , will become a strong , proud adventurer daring the farthest planet of the farthest star ?
You ca n't stop a boy from adventuring .
Surprise him at his books and you 'll see tropical seas in his eyes , a pearly nautilus , Hong Kong and Valparaiso resplendent in the dawn .
There is no strength quite like the strength of a mother , Sally .
Endure it , be brave ... Sally was at the window when it came .
A dazzling burst of radiance , starting from the horizon 's rim and spreading across the entire sky .
It lit up the cottage and flickered over the lawn , turning rooftops to molten gold and gilding the long line of rolling hills which hemmed in the town .
Brighter it grew and brighter , gilding for a moment even Sally 's bowed head and her image mirrored on the pane .
Then , abruptly , it was gone ...
I When Mr. Hiram B. Otis , the American Minister , bought Canterville Chase , every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing , as there was no doubt at all that the place was haunted .
Indeed , Lord Canterville himself , who was a man of the most punctilious honour , had felt it his duty to mention the fact to Mr. Otis when they came to discuss terms .
" We have not cared to live in the place ourselves , " said Lord Canterville , " since my grandaunt , the Dowager Duchess of Bolton , was frightened into a fit , from which she never really recovered , by two skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for dinner , and I feel bound to tell you , Mr. Otis , that the ghost has been seen by several living members of my family , as well as by the rector of the parish , the Rev.
Augustus Dampier , who is a Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
After the unfortunate accident to the Duchess , none of our younger servants would stay with us , and Lady Canterville often got very little sleep at night , in consequence of the mysterious noises that came from the corridor and the library . "
" My Lord , " answered the Minister , " I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation .
I have come from a modern country , where we have everything that money can buy ; and with all our spry young fellows painting the Old World red , and carrying off your best actors and prima - donnas , I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in Europe , we 'd have it at home in a very short time in one of our public museums , or on the road as a show . "
" I fear that the ghost exists , " said Lord Canterville , smiling , " though it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios .
It has been well known for three centuries , since 1584 in fact , and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family . "
" Well , so does the family doctor for that matter , Lord Canterville .
But there is no such thing , sir , as a ghost , and I guess the laws of Nature are not going to be suspended for the British aristocracy . "
" You are certainly very natural in America , " answered Lord Canterville , who did not quite understand Mr. Otis 's last observation , " and if you do n't mind a ghost in the house , it is all right .
Only you must remember I warned you . "
A few weeks after this , the purchase was concluded , and at the close of the season the Minister and his family went down to Canterville Chase .
Mrs. Otis , who , as Miss Lucretia R. Tappan , of West 53d Street , had been a celebrated New York belle , was now a very handsome , middle - aged woman , with fine eyes , and a superb profile .
Many American ladies on leaving their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill - health , under the impression that it is a form of European refinement , but Mrs. Otis had never fallen into this error .
She had a magnificent constitution , and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits .
Indeed , in many respects , she was quite English , and was an excellent example of the fact that we have really everything in common with America nowadays , except , of course , language .
Her eldest son , christened Washington by his parents in a moment of patriotism , which he never ceased to regret , was a fairhaired , rather good - looking young man , who had qualified himself for American diplomacy by leading the German at the Newport Casino for three successive seasons , and even in London was well known as an excellent dancer .
Gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses .
Otherwise he was extremely sensible .
Miss Virginia E. Otis was a little girl of fifteen , lithe and lovely as a fawn , and with a fine freedom in her large blue eyes .
She was a wonderful Amazon , and had once raced old Lord Bilton on her pony twice round the park , winning by a length and a half , just in front of the Achilles statue , to the huge delight of the young Duke of Cheshire , who proposed for her on the spot , and was sent back to Eton that very night by his guardians , in floods of tears .
After Virginia came the twins , who were usually called " The Star and Stripes , " as they were always getting swished .
They were delightful boys , and , with the exception of the worthy Minister , the only true republicans of the family .
As Canterville Chase is seven miles from Ascot , the nearest railway station , Mr. Otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them , and they started on their drive in high spirits .
It was a lovely July evening , and the air was delicate with the scent of the pinewoods .
Now and then they heard a wood - pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice , or saw , deep in the rustling fern , the burnished breast of the pheasant .
Little squirrels peered at them from the beech - trees as they went by , and the rabbits scudded away through the brushwood and over the mossy knolls , with their white tails in the air .
As they entered the avenue of Canterville Chase , however , the sky became suddenly overcast with clouds , a curious stillness seemed to hold the atmosphere , a great flight of rooks passed silently over their heads , and , before they reached the house , some big drops of rain had fallen .
Standing on the steps to receive them was an old woman , neatly dressed in black silk , with a white cap and apron .
This was Mrs. Umney , the housekeeper , whom Mrs. Otis , at Lady Canterville 's earnest request , had consented to keep in her former position .
She made them each a low curtsey as they alighted , and said in a quaint , old - fashioned manner , " I bid you welcome to Canterville Chase . "
Following her , they passed through the fine Tudor hall into the library , a long , low room , panelled in black oak , at the end of which was a large stained glass window .
Here they found tea laid out for them , and , after taking off their wraps , they sat down and began to look round , while Mrs. Umney waited on them .
Suddenly Mrs. Otis caught sight of a dull red stain on the floor just by the fireplace , and , quite unconscious of what it really signified , said to Mrs. Umney , " I am afraid something has been spilt there . "
" Yes , madam , " replied the old housekeeper in a low voice , " blood has been spilt on that spot . "
" How horrid ! "
cried Mrs. Otis ; " I do n't at all care for blood - stains in a sitting - room .
It must be removed at once . "
The old woman smiled , and answered in the same low , mysterious voice , " It is the blood of Lady Eleanore de Canterville , who was murdered on that very spot by her own husband , Sir Simon de Canterville , in 1575 .
Sir Simon survived her nine years , and disappeared suddenly under very mysterious circumstances .
His body has never been discovered , but his guilty spirit still haunts the Chase .
The blood - stain has been much admired by tourists and others , and can not be removed . "
" That is all nonsense , " cried Washington Otis ; " Pinkerton 's Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will clean it up in no time , " and before the terrified housekeeper could interfere , he had fallen upon his knees , and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what looked like a black cosmetic .
In a few moments no trace of the blood - stain could be seen .
" I knew Pinkerton would do it , " he exclaimed , triumphantly , as he looked round at his admiring family ; but no sooner had he said these words than a terrible flash of lightning lit up the sombre room , a fearful peal of thunder made them all start to their feet , and Mrs. Umney fainted .
" What a monstrous climate ! "
said the American Minister , calmly , as he lit a long cheroot .
" I guess the old country is so overpopulated that they have not enough decent weather for everybody .
I have always been of opinion that emigration is the only thing for England . "
" My dear Hiram , " cried Mrs. Otis , " what can we do with a woman who faints ? "
" Charge it to her like breakages , " answered the Minister ; " she wo n't faint after that ; " and in a few moments Mrs. Umney certainly came to .
There was no doubt , however , that she was extremely upset , and she sternly warned Mr. Otis to beware of some trouble coming to the house .
" I have seen things with my own eyes , sir , " she said , " that would make any Christian 's hair stand on end , and many and many a night I have not closed my eyes in sleep for the awful things that are done here . "
Mr. Otis , however , and his wife warmly assured the honest soul that they were not afraid of ghosts , and , after invoking the blessings of Providence on her new master and mistress , and making arrangements for an increase of salary , the old housekeeper tottered off to her own room .
II The storm raged fiercely all that night , but nothing of particular note occurred .
The next morning , however , when they came down to breakfast , they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor .
" I do n't think it can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent , " said Washington , " for I have tried it with everything .
It must be the ghost . "
He accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time , but the second morning it appeared again .
The third morning also it was there , though the library had been locked up at night by Mr. Otis himself , and the key carried up - stairs .
The whole family were now quite interested ; Mr. Otis began to suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of ghosts , Mrs. Otis expressed her intention of joining the Psychical Society , and Washington prepared a long letter to Messrs. Myers and Podmore on the subject of the Permanence of Sanguineous Stains when connected with Crime .
That night all doubts about the objective existence of phantasmata were removed for ever .
The day had been warm and sunny ; and , in the cool of the evening , the whole family went out to drive .
They did not return home till nine o'clock , when they had a light supper .
The conversation in no way turned upon ghosts , so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive expectations which so often precede the presentation of psychical phenomena .
The subjects discussed , as I have since learned from Mr. Otis , were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of cultured Americans of the better class , such as the immense superiority of Miss Fanny Devonport over Sarah Bernhardt as an actress ; the difficulty of obtaining green corn , buckwheat cakes , and hominy , even in the best English houses ; the importance of Boston in the development of the world - soul ; the advantages of the baggage - check system in railway travelling ; and the sweetness of the New York accent as compared to the London drawl .
No mention at all was made of the supernatural , nor was Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way .
At eleven o'clock the family retired , and by half - past all the lights were out .
Some time after , Mr. Otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor , outside his room .
It sounded like the clank of metal , and seemed to be coming nearer every moment .
He got up at once , struck a match , and looked at the time .
It was exactly one o'clock .
He was quite calm , and felt his pulse , which was not at all feverish .
The strange noise still continued , and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps .
He put on his slippers , took a small oblong phial out of his dressing - case , and opened the door .
Right in front of him he saw , in the wan moonlight , an old man of terrible aspect .
His eyes were as red burning coals ; long grey hair fell over his shoulders in matted coils ; his garments , which were of antique cut , were soiled and ragged , and from his wrists and ankles hung heavy manacles and rusty gyves .
" My dear sir , " said Mr. Otis , " I really must insist on your oiling those chains , and have brought you for that purpose a small bottle of the Tammany Rising Sun Lubricator .
It is said to be completely efficacious upon one application , and there are several testimonials to that effect on the wrapper from some of our most eminent native divines .
I shall leave it here for you by the bedroom candles , and will be happy to supply you with more , should you require it . "
With these words the United States Minister laid the bottle down on a marble table , and , closing his door , retired to rest .
For a moment the Canterville ghost stood quite motionless in natural indignation ; then , dashing the bottle violently upon the polished floor , he fled down the corridor , uttering hollow groans , and emitting a ghastly green light .
Just , however , as he reached the top of the great oak staircase , a door was flung open , two little white - robed figures appeared , and a large pillow whizzed past his head !
There was evidently no time to be lost , so , hastily adopting the Fourth dimension of Space as a means of escape , he vanished through the wainscoting , and the house became quite quiet .
On reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing , he leaned up against a moonbeam to recover his breath , and began to try and realize his position .
Never , in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three hundred years , had he been so grossly insulted .
He thought of the Dowager Duchess , whom he had frightened into a fit as she stood before the glass in her lace and diamonds ; of the four housemaids , who had gone into hysterics when he merely grinned at them through the curtains on one of the spare bedrooms ; of the rector of the parish , whose candle he had blown out as he was coming late one night from the library , and who had been under the care of Sir William Gull ever since , a perfect martyr to nervous disorders ; and of old Madame de Tremouillac , who , having wakened up one morning early and seen a skeleton seated in an armchair by the fire reading her diary , had been confined to her bed for six weeks with an attack of brain fever , and , on her recovery , had become reconciled to the Church , and broken off her connection with that notorious sceptic , Monsieur de Voltaire .
He remembered the terrible night when the wicked Lord Canterville was found choking in his dressing - room , with the knave of diamonds half - way down his throat , and confessed , just before he died , that he had cheated Charles James Fox out of  50,000 at Crockford 's by means of that very card , and swore that the ghost had made him swallow it .
All his great achievements came back to him again , from the butler who had shot himself in the pantry because he had seen a green hand tapping at the window - pane , to the beautiful Lady Stutfield , who was always obliged to wear a black velvet band round her throat to hide the mark of five fingers burnt upon her white skin , and who drowned herself at last in the carp - pond at the end of the King 's Walk .
With the enthusiastic egotism of the true artist , he went over his most celebrated performances , and smiled bitterly to himself as he recalled to mind his last appearance as " Red Reuben , or the Strangled Babe , " his dbut as " Guant Gibeon , the Blood - sucker of Bexley Moor , " and the furore he had excited one lovely June evening by merely playing ninepins with his own bones upon the lawn - tennis ground .
And after all this some wretched modern Americans were to come and offer him the Rising Sun Lubricator , and throw pillows at his head !
It was quite unbearable .
Besides , no ghost in history had ever been treated in this manner .
Accordingly , he determined to have vengeance , and remained till daylight in an attitude of deep thought .
III The next morning , when the Otis family met at breakfast , they discussed the ghost at some length .
The United States Minister was naturally a little annoyed to find that his present had not been accepted .
" I have no wish , " he said , " to do the ghost any personal injury , and I must say that , considering the length of time he has been in the house , I do n't think it is at all polite to throw pillows at him , " - a very just remark , at which , I am sorry to say , the twins burst into shouts of laughter .
" Upon the other hand , " he continued , " if he really declines to use the Rising Sun Lubricator , we shall have to take his chains from him .
It would be quite impossible to sleep , with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms . "
For the rest of the week , however , they were undisturbed , the only thing that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the blood - stain on the library floor .
This certainly was very strange , as the door was always locked at night by Mr. Otis , and the windows kept closely barred .
The chameleon - like colour , also , of the stain excited a good deal of comment .
Some mornings it was a dull ( almost Indian ) red , then it would be vermilion , then a rich purple , and once when they came down for family prayers , according to the simple rites of the Free American Reformed Episcopalian Church , they found it a bright emerald - green .
These kaleidoscopic changes naturally amused the party very much , and bets on the subject were freely made every evening .
The only person who did not enter into the joke was little Virginia , who , for some unexplained reason , was always a good deal distressed at the sight of the blood - stain , and very nearly cried the morning it was emerald - green .
The second appearance of the ghost was on Sunday night .
Shortly after they had gone to bed they were suddenly alarmed by a fearful crash in the hall .
Rushing down - stairs , they found that a large suit of old armour had become detached from its stand , and had fallen on the stone floor , while seated in a high - backed chair was the Canterville ghost , rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face .
The twins , having brought their peashooters with them , at once discharged two pellets on him , with that accuracy of aim which can only be attained by long and careful practice on a writingmaster , while the United States Minister covered him with his revolver , and called upon him , in accordance with Californian etiquette , to hold up his hands !
The ghost started up with a wild shriek of rage , and swept through them like a mist , extinguishing Washington Otis 's candle as he passed , and so leaving them all in total darkness .
On reaching the top of the staircase he recovered himself , and determined to give his celebrated peal of demoniac laughter .
This he had on more than one occasion found extremely useful .
It was said to have turned Lord Raker 's wig grey in a single night , and had certainly made three of Lady Canterville 's French governesses give warning before their month was up .
He accordingly laughed his most horrible laugh , till the old vaulted roof rang and rang again , but hardly had the fearful echo died away when a door opened , and Mrs. Otis came out in a light blue dressing - gown .
" I am afraid you are far from well , " she said , " and have brought you a bottle of Doctor Dobell 's tincture .
If it is indigestion , you will find it a most excellent remedy . "
The ghost glared at her in fury , and began at once to make preparations for turning himself into a large black dog , an accomplishment for which he was justly renowned , and to which the family doctor always attributed the permanent idiocy of Lord Canterville 's uncle , the Hon .
Thomas Horton .
The sound of approaching footsteps , however , made him hesitate in his fell purpose , so he contented himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent , and vanished with a deep churchyard groan , just as the twins had come up to him .
On reaching his room he entirely broke down , and became a prey to the most violent agitation .
The vulgarity of the twins , and the gross materialism of Mrs. Otis , were naturally extremely annoying , but what really distressed him most was that he had been unable to wear the suit of mail .
He had hoped that even modern Americans would be thrilled by the sight of a Spectre in armour , if for no more sensible reason , at least out of respect for their natural poet Longfellow , over whose graceful and attractive poetry he himself had whiled away many a weary hour when the Cantervilles were up in town .
Besides it was his own suit .
He had worn it with great success at the Kenilworth tournament , and had been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the Virgin Queen herself .
Yet when he had put it on , he had been completely overpowered by the weight of the huge breastplate and steel casque , and had fallen heavily on the stone pavement , barking both his knees severely , and bruising the knuckles of his right hand .
For some days after this he was extremely ill , and hardly stirred out of his room at all , except to keep the blood - stain in proper repair .
However , by taking great care of himself , he recovered , and resolved to make a third attempt to frighten the United States Minister and his family .
He selected Friday , August 17th , for his appearance , and spent most of that day in looking over his wardrobe , ultimately deciding in favour of a large slouched hat with a red feather , a winding - sheet frilled at the wrists and neck , and a rusty dagger .
Towards evening a violent storm of rain came on , and the wind was so high that all the windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled .
In fact , it was just such weather as he loved .
His plan of action was this .
He was to make his way quietly to Washington Otis 's room , gibber at him from the foot of the bed , and stab himself three times in the throat to the sound of low music .
He bore Washington a special grudge , being quite aware that it was he who was in the habit of removing the famous Canterville blood - stain by means of Pinkerton 's Paragon Detergent .
Having reduced the reckless and foolhardy youth to a condition of abject terror , he was then to proceed to the room occupied by the United States Minister and his wife , and there to place a clammy hand on Mrs. Otis 's forehead , while he hissed into her trembling husband 's ear the awful secrets of the charnel - house .
With regard to little Virginia , he had not quite made up his mind .
She had never insulted him in any way , and was pretty and gentle .
A few hollow groans from the wardrobe , he thought , would be more than sufficient , or , if that failed to wake her , he might grabble at the counterpane with palsy - twitching fingers .
As for the twins , he was quite determined to teach them a lesson .
The first thing to be done was , of course , to sit upon their chests , so as to produce the stifling sensation of nightmare .
Then , as their beds were quite close to each other , to stand between them in the form of a green , icy - cold corpse , till they became paralyzed with fear , and finally , to throw off the winding - sheet , and crawl round the room , with white , bleached bones and one rolling eyeball , in the character of " Dumb Daniel , or the Suicide 's Skeleton , " a rle in which he had on more than one occasion produced a great effect , and which he considered quite equal to his famous part of " Martin the Maniac , or the Masked Mystery . "
At half - past ten he heard the family going to bed .
For some time he was disturbed by wild shrieks of laughter from the twins , who , with the light - hearted gaiety of schoolboys , were evidently amusing themselves before they retired to rest , but at a quarter - past eleven all was still , and , as midnight sounded , he sallied forth .
The owl beat against the window - panes , the raven croaked from the old yew - tree , and the wind wandered moaning round the house like a lost soul ; but the Otis family slept unconscious of their doom , and high above the rain and storm he could hear the steady snoring of the Minister for the United States .
He stepped stealthily out of the wainscoting , with an evil smile on his cruel , wrinkled mouth , and the moon hid her face in a cloud as he stole past the great oriel window , where his own arms and those of his murdered wife were blazoned in azure and gold .
On and on he glided , like an evil shadow , the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed .
Once he thought he heard something call , and stopped ; but it was only the baying of a dog from the Red Farm , and he went on , muttering strange sixteenth - century curses , and ever and anon brandishing the rusty dagger in the midnight air .
Finally he reached the corner of the passage that led to luckless Washington 's room .
For a moment he paused there , the wind blowing his long grey locks about his head , and twisting into grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man 's shroud .
Then the clock struck the quarter , and he felt the time was come .
He chuckled to himself , and turned the corner ; but no sooner had he done so than , with a piteous wail of terror , he fell back , and hid his blanched face in his long , bony hands .
Right in front of him was standing a horrible spectre , motionless as a carven image , and monstrous as a madman 's dream !
Its head was bald and burnished ; its face round , and fat , and white ; and hideous laughter seemed to have writhed its features into an eternal grin .
From the eyes streamed rays of scarlet light , the mouth was a wide well of fire , and a hideous garment , like to his own , swathed with its silent snows the Titan form .
On its breast was a placard with strange writing in antique characters , some scroll of shame it seemed , some record of wild sins , some awful calendar of crime , and , with its right hand , it bore aloft a falchion of gleaming steel .
Never having seen a ghost before , he naturally was terribly frightened , and , after a second hasty glance at the awful phantom , he fled back to his room , tripping up in his long winding - sheet as he sped down the corridor , and finally dropping the rusty dagger into the Minister 's jack - boots , where it was found in the morning by the butler .
Once in the privacy of his own apartment , he flung himself down on a small pallet - bed , and hid his face under the clothes .
After a time , however , the brave old Canterville spirit asserted itself , and he determined to go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight .
Accordingly , just as the dawn was touching the hills with silver , he returned towards the spot where he had first laid eyes on the grisly phantom , feeling that , after all , two ghosts were better than one , and that , by the aid of his new friend , he might safely grapple with the twins .
On reaching the spot , however , a terrible sight met his gaze .
Something had evidently happened to the spectre , for the light had entirely faded from its hollow eyes , the gleaming falchion had fallen from its hand , and it was leaning up against the wall in a strained and uncomfortable attitude .
He rushed forward and seized it in his arms , when , to his horror , the head slipped off and rolled on the floor , the body assumed a recumbent posture , and he found himself clasping a white dimity bed - curtain , with a sweeping - brush , a kitchen cleaver , and a hollow turnip lying at his feet !
Unable to understand this curious transformation , he clutched the placard with feverish haste , and there , in the grey morning light , he read these fearful words : - YE OTIS GHOSTE Ye Onlie True and Originale Spook , Beware of Ye Imitationes .
All others are counterfeite .
The whole thing flashed across him .
He had been tricked , foiled , and outwitted !
The old Canterville look came into his eyes ; he ground his toothless gums together ; and , raising his withered hands high above his head , swore according to the picturesque phraseology of the antique school , that , when Chanticleer had sounded twice his merry horn , deeds of blood would be wrought , and murder walk abroad with silent feet .
Hardly had he finished this awful oath when , from the red - tiled roof of a distant homestead , a cock crew .
He laughed a long , low , bitter laugh , and waited .
Hour after hour he waited , but the cock , for some strange reason , did not crow again .
Finally , at half - past seven , the arrival of the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil , and he stalked back to his room , thinking of his vain oath and baffled purpose .
There he consulted several books of ancient chivalry , of which he was exceedingly fond , and found that , on every occasion on which this oath had been used , Chanticleer had always crowed a second time .
" Perdition seize the naughty fowl , " he muttered , " I have seen the day when , with my stout spear , I would have run him through the gorge , and made him crow for me an ' twere in death ! "
He then retired to a comfortable lead coffin , and stayed there till evening .
IV The next day the ghost was very weak and tired .
The terrible excitement of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect .
His nerves were completely shattered , and he started at the slightest noise .
For five days he kept his room , and at last made up his mind to give up the point of the blood - stain on the library floor .
If the Otis family did not want it , they clearly did not deserve it .
They were evidently people on a low , material plane of existence , and quite incapable of appreciating the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena .
The question of phantasmic apparitions , and the development of astral bodies , was of course quite a different matter , and really not under his control .
It was his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week , and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third Wednesdays in every month , and he did not see how he could honourably escape from his obligations .
It is quite true that his life had been very evil , but , upon the other hand , he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural .
For the next three Saturdays , accordingly , he traversed the corridor as usual between midnight and three o'clock , taking every possible precaution against being either heard or seen .
He removed his boots , trod as lightly as possible on the old worm - eaten boards , wore a large black velvet cloak , and was careful to use the Rising Sun Lubricator for oiling his chains .
I am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection .
However , one night , while the family were at dinner , he slipped into Mr. Otis 's bedroom and carried off the bottle .
He felt a little humiliated at first , but afterwards was sensible enough to see that there was a great deal to be said for the invention , and , to a certain degree , it served his purpose .
Still in spite of everything he was not left unmolested .
Strings were continually being stretched across the corridor , over which he tripped in the dark , and on one occasion , while dressed for the part of " Black Isaac , or the Huntsman of Hogley Woods , " he met with a severe fall , through treading on a butter - slide , which the twins had constructed from the entrance of the Tapestry Chamber to the top of the oak staircase .
This last insult so enraged him , that he resolved to make one final effort to assert his dignity and social position , and determined to visit the insolent young Etonians the next night in his celebrated character of " Reckless Rupert , or the Headless Earl . "
He had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years ; in fact , not since he had so frightened pretty Lady Barbara Modish by means of it , that she suddenly broke off her engagement with the present Lord Canterville 's grandfather , and ran away to Gretna Green with handsome Jack Castletown , declaring that nothing in the world would induce her to marry into a family that allowed such a horrible phantom to walk up and down the terrace at twilight .
Poor Jack was afterwards shot in a duel by Lord Canterville on Wandsworth Common , and Lady Barbara died of a broken heart at Tunbridge Wells before the year was out , so , in every way , it had been a great success .
It was , however an extremely difficult " make - up , " if I may use such a theatrical expression in connection with one of the greatest mysteries of the supernatural , or , to employ a more scientific term , the higher - natural world , and it took him fully three hours to make his preparations .
At last everything was ready , and he was very pleased with his appearance .
The big leather riding - boots that went with the dress were just a little too large for him , and he could only find one of the two horse - pistols , but , on the whole , he was quite satisfied , and at a quarter - past one he glided out of the wainscoting and crept down the corridor .
On reaching the room occupied by the twins , which I should mention was called the Blue Bed Chamber , on account of the colour of its hangings , he found the door just ajar .
Wishing to make an effective entrance , he flung it wide open , when a heavy jug of water fell right down on him , wetting him to the skin , and just missing his left shoulder by a couple of inches .
At the same moment he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four - post bed .
The shock to his nervous system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he could go , and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold .
The only thing that at all consoled him in the whole affair was the fact that he had not brought his head with him , for , had he done so , the consequences might have been very serious .
He now gave up all hope of ever frightening this rude American family , and contented himself , as a rule , with creeping about the passages in list slippers , with a thick red muffler round his throat for fear of draughts , and a small arquebuse , in case he should be attacked by the twins .
The final blow he received occurred on the 19th of September .
He had gone down - stairs to the great entrance - hall , feeling sure that there , at any rate , he would be quite unmolested , and was amusing himself by making satirical remarks on the large Saroni photographs of the United States Minister and his wife which had now taken the place of the Canterville family pictures .
He was simply but neatly clad in a long shroud , spotted with churchyard mould , had tied up his jaw with a strip of yellow linen , and carried a small lantern and a sexton 's spade .
In fact , he was dressed for the character of " Jonas the Graveless , or the CorpseSnatcher of Chertsey Barn , " one of his most remarkable impersonations , and one which the Cantervilles had every reason to remember , as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their neighbour , Lord Rufford .
It was about a quarter - past two o'clock in the morning , and , as far as he could ascertain , no one was stirring .
As he was strolling towards the library , however , to see if there were any traces left of the blood - stain , suddenly there leaped out on him from a dark corner two figures , who waved their arms wildly above their heads , and shrieked out " BOO ! "
in his ear .
Seized with a panic , which , under the circumstances , was only natural , he rushed for the staircase , but found Washington Otis waiting for him there with the big garden - syringe , and being thus hemmed in by his enemies on every side , and driven almost to bay , he vanished into the great iron stove , which , fortunately for him , was not lit , and had to make his way home through the flues and chimneys , arriving at his own room in a terrible state of dirt , disorder , and despair .
After this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition .
The twins lay in wait for him on several occasions , and strewed the passages with nutshells every night to the great annoyance of their parents and the servants , but it was of no avail .
It was quite evident that his feelings were so wounded that he would not appear .
Mr. Otis consequently resumed his great work on the history of the Democratic Party , on which he had been engaged for some years ; Mrs. Otis organized a wonderful clam - bake , which amazed the whole county ; the boys took to lacrosse euchre , poker , and other American national games , and Virginia rode about the lanes on her pony , accompanied by the young Duke of Cheshire , who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at Canterville Chase .
It was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away , and , in fact , Mr. Otis wrote a letter to that effect to Lord Canterville , who , in reply , expressed his great pleasure at the news , and sent his best congratulations to the Minister 's worthy wife .
The Otises , however , were deceived , for the ghost was still in the house , and though now almost an invalid , was by no means ready to let matters rest , particularly as he heard that among the guests was the young Duke of Cheshire , whose grand - uncle , Lord Francis Stilton , had once bet a hundred guineas with Colonel Carbury that he would play dice with the Canterville ghost , and was found the next morning lying on the floor of the card - room in such a helpless paralytic state that , though he lived on to a great age , he was never able to say anything again but " Double Sixes . "
The story was well known at the time , though , of course , out of respect to the feelings of the two noble families , every attempt was made to hush it up , and a full account of all the circumstances connected with it will be found in the third volume of Lord Tattle 's Recollections of the Prince Regent and his Friends .
The ghost , then , was naturally very anxious to show that he had not lost his influence over the Stiltons , with whom , indeed , he was distantly connected , his own first cousin having been married en secondes noces to the Sieur de Bulkeley , from whom , as every one knows , the Dukes of Cheshire are lineally descended .
Accordingly , he made arrangements for appearing to Virginia 's little lover in his celebrated impersonation of " The Vampire Monk , or the Bloodless Benedictine , " a performance so horrible that when old Lady Startup saw it , which she did on one fatal New Year 's Eve , in the year 1764 , she went off into the most piercing shrieks , which culminated in violent apoplexy , and died in three days , after disinheriting the Cantervilles , who were her nearest relations , and leaving all her money to her London apothecary .
At the last moment , however , his terror of the twins prevented his leaving his room , and the little Duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the Royal Bedchamber , and dreamed of Virginia .
V A few days after this , Virginia and her curly - haired cavalier went out riding on Brockley meadows , where she tore her habit so badly in getting through a hedge that , on their return home , she made up her mind to go up by the back staircase so as not to be seen .
As she was running past the Tapestry Chamber , the door of which happened to be open , she fancied she saw some one inside , and thinking it was her mother 's maid , who sometimes used to bring her work there , looked in to ask her to mend her habit .
To her immense surprise , however , it was the Canterville Ghost himself !
He was sitting by the window , watching the ruined gold of the yellowing trees fly through the air , and the red leaves dancing madly down the long avenue .
His head was leaning on his hand , and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression .
Indeed , so forlorn , and so much out of repair did he look , that little Virginia , whose first idea had been to run away and lock herself in her room , was filled with pity , and determined to try and comfort him .
So light was her footfall , and so deep his melancholy , that he was not aware of her presence till she spoke to him .
" I am so sorry for you , " she said , " but my brothers are going back to Eton to - morrow , and then , if you behave yourself , no one will annoy you . "
" It is absurd asking me to behave myself , " he answered , looking round in astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him , " quite absurd .
I must rattle my chains , and groan through keyholes , and walk about at night , if that is what you mean .
It is my only reason for existing . "
" It is no reason at all for existing , and you know you have been very wicked .
Mrs. Umney told us , the first day we arrived here , that you had killed your wife . "
" Well , I quite admit it , " said the Ghost , petulantly , " but it was a purely family matter , and concerned no one else . "
" It is very wrong to kill any one , " said Virginia , who at times had a sweet puritan gravity , caught from some old New England ancestor .
" Oh , I hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics !
My wife was very plain , never had my ruffs properly starched , and knew nothing about cookery .
Why , there was a buck I had shot in Hogley Woods , a magnificent pricket , and do you know how she had it sent to table ?
However , it is no matter now , for it is all over , and I do n't think it was very nice of her brothers to starve me to death , though I did kill her . "
" Starve you to death ?
Oh , Mr. Ghost - I mean Sir Simon , are you hungry ?
I have a sandwich in my case .
Would you like it ? "
" No , thank you , I never eat anything now ; but it is very kind of you , all the same , and you are much nicer than the rest of your horrid , rude , vulgar , dishonest family . "
" Stop ! "
cried Virginia , stamping her foot , " it is you who are rude , and horrid , and vulgar , and as for dishonesty , you know you stole the paints out of my box to try and furbish up that ridiculous blood - stain in the library .
First you took all my reds , including the vermilion , and I could n't do any more sunsets , then you took the emerald - green and the chrome - yellow , and finally I had nothing left but indigo and Chinese white , and could only do moonlight scenes , which are always depressing to look at , and not at all easy to paint .
I never told on you , though I was very much annoyed , and it was most ridiculous , the whole thing ; for who ever heard of emerald - green blood ? "
" Well , really , " said the Ghost , rather meekly , " what was I to do ?
It is a very difficult thing to get real blood nowadays , and , as your brother began it all with his Paragon Detergent , I certainly saw no reason why I should not have your paints .
As for colour , that is always a matter of taste : the Cantervilles have blue blood , for instance , the very bluest in England ; but I know you Americans do n't care for things of this kind . "
" You know nothing about it , and the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind .
My father will be only too happy to give you a free passage , and though there is a heavy duty on spirits of every kind , there will be no difficulty about the Custom House , as the officers are all Democrats .
Once in New York , you are sure to be a great success .
I know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather , and much more than that to have a family ghost . "
" I do n't think I should like America . "
" I suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities , " said Virginia , satirically .
" No ruins !
no curiosities ! "
answered the Ghost ; " you have your navy and your manners . "
" Good evening ; I will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week 's holiday . "
" Please do n't go , Miss Virginia , " he cried ; " I am so lonely and so unhappy , and I really do n't know what to do .
I want to go to sleep and I can not . "
" That 's quite absurd !
You have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle .
It is very difficult sometimes to keep awake , especially at church , but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping .
Why , even babies know how to do that , and they are not very clever . "
" I have not slept for three hundred years , " he said sadly , and Virginia 's beautiful blue eyes opened in wonder ; " for three hundred years I have not slept , and I am so tired . "
Virginia grew quite grave , and her little lips trembled like rose - leaves .
She came towards him , and kneeling down at his side , looked up into his old withered face .
" Poor , poor Ghost , " she murmured ; " have you no place where you can sleep ? "
" Far away beyond the pine - woods , " he answered , in a low , dreamy voice , " there is a little garden .
There the grass grows long and deep , there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower , there the nightingale sings all night long .
All night long he sings , and the cold crystal moon looks down , and the yew - tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers . "
Virginia 's eyes grew dim with tears , and she hid her face in her hands .
" You mean the Garden of Death , " she whispered .
" Yes , death .
Death must be so beautiful .
To lie in the soft brown earth , with the grasses waving above one 's head , and listen to silence .
To have no yesterday , and no to - morrow .
To forget time , to forget life , to be at peace .
You can help me .
You can open for me the portals of death 's house , for love is always with you , and love is stronger than death is . "
Virginia trembled , a cold shudder ran through her , and for a few moments there was silence .
She felt as if she was in a terrible dream .
Then the ghost spoke again , and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind .
" Have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window ? "
" Oh , often , " cried the little girl , looking up ; " I know it quite well .
It is painted in curious black letters , and is difficult to read .
There are only six lines : " ' When a golden girl can win Prayer from out the lips of sin , When the barren almond bears , And a little child gives away its tears , Then shall all the house be still And peace come to Canterville . '
But I do n't know what they mean . "
" They mean , " he said , sadly , " that you must weep with me for my sins , because I have no tears , and pray with me for my soul , because I have no faith , and then , if you have always been sweet , and good , and gentle , the angel of death will have mercy on me .
You will see fearful shapes in darkness , and wicked voices will whisper in your ear , but they will not harm you , for against the purity of a little child the powers of Hell can not prevail . "
Virginia made no answer , and the ghost wrung his hands in wild despair as he looked down at her bowed golden head .
Suddenly she stood up , very pale , and with a strange light in her eyes .
" I am not afraid , " she said firmly , " and I will ask the angel to have mercy on you . "
He rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy , and taking her hand bent over it with old - fashioned grace and kissed it .
His fingers were as cold as ice , and his lips burned like fire , but Virginia did not falter , as he led her across the dusky room .
On the faded green tapestry were broidered little huntsmen .
They blew their tasselled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go back .
" Go back !
little Virginia , " they cried , " go back ! "
but the ghost clutched her hand more tightly , and she shut her eyes against them .
Horrible animals with lizard tails and goggle eyes blinked at her from the carven chimneypiece , and murmured , " Beware !
little Virginia , beware !
we may never see you again , " but the Ghost glided on more swiftly , and Virginia did not listen .
When they reached the end of the room he stopped , and muttered some words she could not understand .
She opened her eyes , and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist , and a great black cavern in front of her .
A bitter cold wind swept round them , and she felt something pulling at her dress .
" Quick , quick , " cried the Ghost , " or it will be too late , " and in a moment the wainscoting had closed behind them , and the Tapestry Chamber was empty .
VI About ten minutes later , the bell rang for tea , and , as Virginia did not come down , Mrs. Otis sent up one of the footmen to tell her .
After a little time he returned and said that he could not find Miss Virginia anywhere .
As she was in the habit of going out to the garden every evening to get flowers for the dinner - table , Mrs. Otis was not at all alarmed at first , but when six o'clock struck , and Virginia did not appear , she became really agitated , and sent the boys out to look for her , while she herself and Mr. Otis searched every room in the house .
At half - past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere .
They were all now in the greatest state of excitement , and did not know what to do , when Mr. Otis suddenly remembered that , some few days before , he had given a band of gipsies permission to camp in the park .
He accordingly at once set off for Blackfell Hollow , where he knew they were , accompanied by his eldest son and two of the farm - servants .
The little Duke of Cheshire , who was perfectly frantic with anxiety , begged hard to be allowed to go too , but Mr. Otis would not allow him , as he was afraid there might be a scuffle .
On arriving at the spot , however , he found that the gipsies had gone , and it was evident that their departure had been rather sudden , as the fire was still burning , and some plates were lying on the grass .
Having sent off Washington and the two men to scour the district , he ran home , and despatched telegrams to all the police inspectors in the county , telling them to look out for a little girl who had been kidnapped by tramps or gipsies .
He then ordered his horse to be brought round , and , after insisting on his wife and the three boys sitting down to dinner , rode off down the Ascot road with a groom .
He had hardly , however , gone a couple of miles , when he heard somebody galloping after him , and , looking round , saw the little Duke coming up on his pony , with his face very flushed , and no hat .
" I 'm awfully sorry , Mr. Otis , " gasped out the boy , " but I ca n't eat any dinner as long as Virginia is lost .
Please do n't be angry with me ; if you had let us be engaged last year , there would never have been all this trouble .
You wo n't send me back , will you ?
I ca n't go !
I wo n't go ! "
The Minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace , and was a good deal touched at his devotion to Virginia , so leaning down from his horse , he patted him kindly on the shoulders , and said , " Well , Cecil , if you wo n't go back , I suppose you must come with me , but I must get you a hat at Ascot . "
" Oh , bother my hat !
I want Virginia ! "
cried the little Duke , laughing , and they galloped on to the railway station .
There Mr. Otis inquired of the stationmaster if any one answering to the description of Virginia had been seen on the platform , but could get no news of her .
The station - master , however , wired up and down the line , and assured him that a strict watch would be kept for her , and , after having bought a hat for the little Duke from a linen - draper , who was just putting up his shutters , Mr. Otis rode off to Bexley , a village about four miles away , which he was told was a well - known haunt of the gipsies , as there was a large common next to it .
Here they roused up the rural policeman , but could get no information from him , and , after riding all over the common , they turned their horses ' heads homewards , and reached the Chase about eleven o'clock , dead - tired and almost heart - broken .
They found Washington and the twins waiting for them at the gate - house with lanterns , as the avenue was very dark .
Not the slightest trace of Virginia had been discovered .
The gipsies had been caught on Brockley meadows , but she was not with them , and they had explained their sudden departure by saying that they had mistaken the date of Chorton Fair , and had gone off in a hurry for fear they should be late .
Indeed , they had been quite distressed at hearing of Virginia 's disappearance , as they were very grateful to Mr. Otis for having allowed them to camp in his park , and four of their number had stayed behind to help in the search .
The carp - pond had been dragged , and the whole Chase thoroughly gone over , but without any result .
It was evident that , for that night at any rate , Virginia was lost to them ; and it was in a state of the deepest depression that Mr. Otis and the boys walked up to the house , the groom following behind with the two horses and the pony .
In the hall they found a group of frightened servants , and lying on a sofa in the library was poor Mrs. Otis , almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety , and having her forehead bathed with eau de cologne by the old housekeeper .
Mr. Otis at once insisted on her having something to eat , and ordered up supper for the whole party .
It was a melancholy meal , as hardly any one spoke , and even the twins were awestruck and subdued , as they were very fond of their sister .
When they had finished , Mr. Otis , in spite of the entreaties of the little Duke , ordered them all to bed , saying that nothing more could be done that night , and that he would telegraph in the morning to Scotland Yard for some detectives to be sent down immediately .
Just as they were passing out of the dining - room , midnight began to boom from the clock tower , and when the last stroke sounded they heard a crash and a sudden shrill cry ; a dreadful peal of thunder shook the house , a strain of unearthly music floated through the air , a panel at the top of the staircase flew back with a loud noise , and out on the landing , looking very pale and white , with a little casket in her hand , stepped Virginia .
In a moment they had all rushed up to her .
Mrs. Otis clasped her passionately in her arms , the Duke smothered her with violent kisses , and the twins executed a wild war - dance round the group .
" Good heavens !
child , where have you been ? "
said Mr. Otis , rather angrily , thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them .
" Cecil and I have been riding all over the country looking for you , and your mother has been frightened to death .
You must never play these practical jokes any more . "
" Except on the Ghost !
except on the Ghost ! "
shrieked the twins , as they capered about .
" My own darling , thank God you are found ; you must never leave my side again , " murmured Mrs. Otis , as she kissed the trembling child , and smoothed the tangled gold of her hair .
" Papa , " said Virginia , quietly , " I have been with the Ghost .
He is dead , and you must come and see him .
He had been very wicked , but he was really sorry for all that he had done , and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died . "
The whole family gazed at her in mute amazement , but she was quite grave and serious ; and , turning round , she led them through the opening in the wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor , Washington following with a lighted candle , which he had caught up from the table .
Finally , they came to a great oak door , studded with rusty nails .
When Virginia touched it , it swung back on its heavy hinges , and they found themselves in a little low room , with a vaulted ceiling , and one tiny grated window .
Imbedded in the wall was a huge iron ring , and chained to it was a gaunt skeleton , that was stretched out at full length on the stone floor , and seemed to be trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers an old - fashioned trencher and ewer , that were placed just out of its reach .
The jug had evidently been once filled with water , as it was covered inside with green mould .
There was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust .
Virginia knelt down beside the skeleton , and , folding her little hands together , began to pray silently , while the rest of the party looked on in wonder at the terrible tragedy whose secret was now disclosed to them .
" Hallo ! "
suddenly exclaimed one of the twins , who had been looking out of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated .
" Hallo !
the old withered almond - tree has blossomed .
I can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight . "
" God has forgiven him , " said Virginia , gravely , as she rose to her feet , and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face .
" What an angel you are ! "
cried the young Duke , and he put his arm round her neck , and kissed her .
VII Four days after these curious incidents , a funeral started from Canterville Chase at about eleven o'clock at night .
The hearse was drawn by eight black horses , each of which carried on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrichplumes , and the leaden coffin was covered by a rich purple pall , on which was embroidered in gold the Canterville coat - of - arms .
By the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches , and the whole procession was wonderfully impressive .
Lord Canterville was the chief mourner , having come up specially from Wales to attend the funeral , and sat in the first carriage along with little Virginia .
Then came the United States Minister and his wife , then Washington and the three boys , and in the last carriage was Mrs. Umney .
It was generally felt that , as she had been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life , she had a right to see the last of him .
A deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard , just under the old yew - tree , and the service was read in the most impressive manner by the Rev.
Augustus Dampier .
When the ceremony was over , the servants , according to an old custom observed in the Canterville family , extinguished their torches , and , as the coffin was being lowered into the grave , Virginia stepped forward , and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almondblossoms .
As she did so , the moon came out from behind a cloud , and flooded with its silent silver the little churchyard , and from a distant copse a nightingale began to sing .
She thought of the ghost 's description of the Garden of Death , her eyes became dim with tears , and she hardly spoke a word during the drive home .
The next morning , before Lord Canterville went up to town , Mr. Otis had an interview with him on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to Virginia .
They were perfectly magnificent , especially a certain ruby necklace with old Venetian setting , which was really a superb specimen of sixteenthcentury work , and their value was so great that Mr. Otis felt considerable scruples about allowing his daughter to accept them .
" My lord , " he said , " I know that in this country mortmain is held to apply to trinkets as well as to land , and it is quite clear to me that these jewels are , or should be , heirlooms in your family .
I must beg you , accordingly , to take them to London with you , and to regard them simply as a portion of your property which has been restored to you under certain strange conditions .
As for my daughter , she is merely a child , and has as yet , I am glad to say , but little interest in such appurtenances of idle luxury .
I am also informed by Mrs. Otis , who , I may say , is no mean authority upon Art , - having had the privilege of spending several winters in Boston when she was a girl , - that these gems are of great monetary worth , and if offered for sale would fetch a tall price .
Under these circumstances , Lord Canterville , I feel sure that you will recognize how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain in the possession of any member of my family ; and , indeed , all such vain gauds and toys , however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the British aristocracy , would be completely out of place among those who have been brought up on the severe , and I believe immortal , principles of Republican simplicity .
Perhaps I should mention that Virginia is very anxious that you should allow her to retain the box , as a memento of your unfortunate but misguided ancestor .
As it is extremely old , and consequently a good deal out of repair , you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request .
For my own part , I confess I am a good deal surprised to find a child of mine expressing sympathy with medivalism in any form , and can only account for it by the fact that Virginia was born in one of your London suburbs shortly after Mrs. Otis had returned from a trip to Athens . "
Lord Canterville listened very gravely to the worthy Minister 's speech , pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile , and when Mr. Otis had ended , he shook him cordially by the hand , and said : " My dear sir , your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor , Sir Simon , a very important service , and I and my family are much indebted to her for her marvellous courage and pluck .
The jewels are clearly hers , and , egad , I believe that if I were heartless enough to take them from her , the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave in a fortnight , leading me the devil of a life .
As for their being heirlooms , nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or legal document , and the existence of these jewels has been quite unknown .
I assure you I have no more claim on them than your butler , and when Miss Virginia grows up , I dare say she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear .
Besides , you forget , Mr. Otis , that you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation , and anything that belonged to the ghost passed at once into your possession , as , whatever activity Sir Simon may have shown in the corridor at night , in point of law he was really dead , and you acquired his property by purchase . "
Mr. Otis was a good deal distressed at Lord Canterville 's refusal , and begged him to reconsider his decision , but the good - natured peer was quite firm , and finally induced the Minister to allow his daughter to retain the present the ghost had given her , and when , in the spring of 1890 , the young Duchess of Cheshire was presented at the Queen 's first drawing - room on the occasion of her marriage , her jewels were the universal theme of admiration .
For Virginia received the coronet , which is the reward of all good little American girls , and was married to her boy - lover as soon as he came of age .
They were both so charming , and they loved each other so much , that every one was delighted at the match , except the old Marchioness of Dumbleton , who had tried to catch the Duke for one of her seven unmarried daughters , and had given no less than three expensive dinner - parties for that purpose , and , strange to say , Mr. Otis himself .
Mr. Otis was extremely fond of the young Duke personally , but , theoretically , he objected to titles , and , to use his own words , " was not without apprehension lest , amid the enervating influences of a pleasure - loving aristocracy , the true principles of Republican simplicity should be forgotten . "
His objections , however , were completely overruled , and I believe that when he walked up the aisle of St. George 's , Hanover Square , with his daughter leaning on his arm , there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of England .
The Duke and Duchess , after the honeymoon was over , went down to Canterville Chase , and on the day after their arrival they walked over in the afternoon to the lonely churchyard by the pine - woods .
There had been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on Sir Simon 's tombstone , but finally it had been decided to engrave on it simply the initials of the old gentleman 's name , and the verse from the library window .
The Duchess had brought with her some lovely roses , which she strewed upon the grave , and after they had stood by it for some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey .
There the Duchess sat down on a fallen pillar , while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes .
Suddenly he threw his cigarette away , took hold of her hand , and said to her , " Virginia , a wife should have no secrets from her husband . "
" Dear Cecil !
I have no secrets from you . "
" Yes , you have , " he answered , smiling , " you have never told me what happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost . "
" I have never told any one , Cecil , " said Virginia , gravely .
" I know that , but you might tell me . "
" Please do n't ask me , Cecil , I can not tell you .
Poor Sir Simon !
I owe him a great deal .
Yes , do n't laugh , Cecil , I really do .
He made me see what Life is , and what Death signifies , and why Love is stronger than both . "
The Duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly .
" You can have your secret as long as I have your heart , " he murmured .
" You have always had that , Cecil . "
" And you will tell our children some day , wo n't you ? "
Virginia blushed .
Stilling , that night after dinner , had surpassed himself .
He always did , Wrayford reflected , when the small fry from Highfield came to dine .
He , Cobham Stilling , who had to find his bearings and keep to his level in the big heedless ironic world of New York , dilated and grew vast in the congenial medium of Highfield .
The Red House was the biggest house of the Highfield summer colony , and Cobham Stilling was its biggest man .
No one else within a radius of a hundred miles ( on a conservative estimate ) had as many horses , as many greenhouses , as many servants , and assuredly no one else had three motors and a motor - boat for the lake .
The motor - boat was Stilling 's latest hobby , and he rode - or steered - it in and out of the conversation all the evening , to the obvious edification of every one present save his wife and his visitor , Austin Wrayford .
The interest of the latter two who , from opposite ends of the drawing - room , exchanged a fleeting glance when Stilling again launched his craft on the thin current of the talk - the interest of Mrs. Stilling and Wrayford had already lost its edge by protracted contact with the subject .
But the dinner - guests - the Rector , Mr. Swordsley , his wife Mrs. Swordsley , Lucy and Agnes Granger , their brother Addison , and young Jack Emmerton from Harvard - were all , for divers reasons , stirred to the proper pitch of feeling .
Mr. Swordsley , no doubt , was saying to himself : " If my good parishioner here can afford to buy a motor - boat , in addition to all the other expenditures which an establishment like this must entail , I certainly need not scruple to appeal to him again for a contribution for our Galahad Club . "
The Granger girls , meanwhile , were evoking visions of lakeside picnics , not unadorned with the presence of young Mr. Emmerton ; while that youth himself speculated as to whether his affable host would let him , when he came back on his next vacation , " learn to run the thing himself " ; and Mr. Addison Granger , the elderly bachelor brother of the volatile Lucy and Agnes , mentally formulated the precise phrase in which , in his next letter to his cousin Professor Spildyke of the University of East Latmos , he should allude to " our last delightful trip in my old friend Cobham Stilling 's ten - thousand - dollar motor - launch " - for East Latmos was still in that primitive stage of culture on which five figures impinge .
Isabel Stilling , sitting beside Mrs. Swordsley , her bead slightly bent above the needlework with which on these occasions it was her old - fashioned habit to employ herself - Isabel also had doubtless her reflections to make .
As Wrayford leaned back in his corner and looked at her across the wide flower - filled drawing - room he noted , first of all - for the how many hundredth time ?
- the play of her hands above the embroidery - frame , the shadow of the thick dark hair on her forehead , the lids over her somewhat full grey eyes .
He noted all this with a conscious deliberateness of enjoyment , taking in unconsciously , at the same time , the particular quality in her attitude , in the fall of her dress and the turn of her head , which had set her for him , from the first day , in a separate world ; then he said to himself : " She is certainly thinking : ' Where on earth will Cobham get the money to pay for it ? ' "
Stilling , cigar in mouth and thumbs in his waistcoat pockets , was impressively perorating from his usual dominant position on the hearth - rug .
" I said : ' If I have the thing at all , I want the best that can be got . '
That 's my way , you know , Swordsley ; I suppose I 'm what you 'd call fastidious .
Always was , about everything , from cigars to wom - " his eye met the apprehensive glance of Mrs. Swordsley , who looked like her husband with his clerical coat cut slightly lower - " so I said : ' If I have the thing at all , I want the best that can be got . '
Nothing makeshift for me , no second - best .
I never cared for the cheap and showy .
I always say frankly to a man : ' If you ca n't give me a first - rate cigar , for the Lord 's sake let me smoke my own . ' "
He paused to do so .
" Well , if you have my standards , you ca n't buy a thing in a minute .
You must look round , compare , select .
I found there were lots of motor - boats on the market , just as there 's lots of stuff called champagne .
But I said to myself : ' Ten to one there 's only one fit to buy , just as there 's only one champagne fit for a gentleman to drink . '
Argued like a lawyer , eh , Austin ? "
He tossed this to Wrayford .
" Take me for one of your own trade , would n't you ?
Well , I 'm not such a fool as I look .
I suppose you fellows who are tied to the treadmill - excuse me , Swordsley , but work 's work , is n't it ?
- I suppose you think a man like me has nothing to do but take it easy : loll through life like a woman .
By George , sir , I 'd like either of you to see the time it takes - I wo n't say the brain - but just the time it takes to pick out a good motor - boat .
Why , I went - " Mrs. Stilling set her embroidery - frame noiselessly on the table at her side , and turned her head toward Wrayford .
" Would you mind ringing for the tray ? "
The interruption helped Mrs. Swordsley to waver to her feet .
" I 'm afraid we ought really to be going ; my husband has an early service to - morrow . "
Her host intervened with a genial protest .
" Going already ?
Nothing of the sort !
Why , the night 's still young , as the poet says .
Long way from here to the rectory ?
Nonsense !
In our little twenty - horse car we do it in five minutes - do n't we , Belle ?
Ah , you 're walking , to be sure - " Stilling 's indulgent gesture seemed to concede that , in such a case , allowances must be made , and that he was the last man not to make them .
" Well , then , Swordsley - " He held out a thick red hand that seemed to exude beneficence , and the clergyman , pressing it , ventured to murmur a suggestion .
" What , that Galahad Club again ?
Why , I thought my wife - Isabel , did n't we - No ?
Well , it must have been my mother , then .
Of course , you know , anything my good mother gives is - well - virtually - You have n't asked her ?
Sure ?
I could have sworn ; I get so many of these appeals .
And in these times , you know , we have to go cautiously .
I 'm sure you recognize that yourself , Swordsley .
With my obligations - here now , to show you do n't bear malice , have a brandy and soda before you go .
Nonsense , man !
This brandy is n't liquor ; it 's liqueur .
I picked it up last year in London - last of a famous lot from Lord St. Oswyn 's cellar .
Laid down here , it stood me at - Eh ? "
he broke off as his wife moved toward him .
" Ah , yes , of course .
Miss Lucy , Miss Agnes - a drop of soda - water ?
Look here , Addison , you wo n't refuse my tipple , I know .
Well , take a cigar , at any rate , Swordsley .
And , by the way , I 'm afraid you 'll have to go round the long way by the avenue to - night .
Sorry , Mrs. Swordsley , but I forgot to tell them to leave the gate into the lane unlocked .
Well , it 's a jolly night , and I daresay you wo n't mind the extra turn along the lake .
And , by Jove !
if the moon 's out , you 'll have a glimpse of the motorboat .
She 's moored just out beyond our boat - house ; and it 's a privilege to look at her , I can tell you ! "
The dispersal of his guests carried Stilling out into the hall , where his pleasantries reverberated under the oak rafters while the Granger girls were being muffled for the drive and the carriages summoned from the stables .
By a common impulse Mrs. Stilling and Wrayford had moved together toward the fire - place , which was hidden by a tall screen from the door into the hall .
Wrayford leaned his elbow against the mantel - piece , and Mrs. Stilling stood beside him , her clasped hands hanging down before her .
" Have you anything more to talk over with him ? "
she asked .
" No .
We wound it all up before dinner .
He does n't want to talk about it any more than he can help . "
" It 's so bad ? "
" No ; but this time he 's got to pull up . "
She stood silent , with lowered lids .
He listened a moment , catching Stilling 's farewell shout ; then he moved a little nearer , and laid his hand on her arm .
" In an hour ? "
She made an imperceptible motion of assent .
" I 'll tell you about it then .
The key 's as usual ? "
She signed another " Yes " and walked away with her long drifting step as her husband came in from the hall .
He went up to the tray and poured himself out a tall glass of brandy and soda .
" The weather is turning queer - black as pitch .
I hope the Swordsleys wo n't walk into the lake - involuntary immersion , eh ?
He 'd come out a Baptist , I suppose .
What 'd the Bishop do in such a case ?
There 's a problem for a lawyer , my boy ! "
He clapped his hand on Wrayford 's thin shoulder and then walked over to his wife , who was gathering up her embroidery silks and dropping them into her work - bag .
Stilling took her by the arms and swung her playfully about so that she faced the lamplight .
" What 's the matter with you tonight ? "
" The matter ? "
she echoed , colouring a little , and standing very straight in her desire not to appear to shrink from his touch .
" You never opened your lips .
Left me the whole job of entertaining those blessed people .
Did n't she , Austin ? "
Wrayford laughed and lit a cigarette .
" There !
You see even Austin noticed it .
What 's the matter , I say ?
Are n't they good enough for you ?
I do n't say they 're particularly exciting ; but , hang it !
I like to ask them here - I like to give people pleasure . "
" I did n't mean to be dull , " said Isabel .
" Well , you must learn to make an effort .
Do n't treat people as if they were n't in the room just because they do n't happen to amuse you .
Do you know what they 'll think ?
They 'll think it 's because you 've got a bigger house and more money than they have .
Shall I tell you something ?
My mother said she 'd noticed the same thing in you lately .
She said she sometimes felt you looked down on her for living in a small house .
Oh , she was half joking , of course ; but you see you do give people that impression .
I ca n't understand treating any one in that way .
The more I have myself , the more I want to make other people happy . "
Isabel gently freed herself and laid the work - bag on her embroidery - frame .
" I have a headache ; perhaps that made me stupid .
I 'm going to bed . "
She turned toward Wrayford and held out her hand .
" Good night . "
" Good night , " he answered , opening the door for her .
When he turned back into the room , his host was pouring himself a third glass of brandy and soda .
" Here , have a nip , Austin ?
Gad , I need it badly , after the shaking up you gave me this afternoon . "
Stilling laughed and carried his glass to the hearth , where he took up his usual commanding position .
" Why the deuce do n't you drink something ?
You look as glum as Isabel .
One would think you were the chap that had been hit by this business . "
Wrayford threw himself into the chair from which Mrs. Stilling had lately risen .
It was the one she usually sat in , and to his fancy a faint scent of her clung to it .
He leaned back and looked up at Stilling .
" Want a cigar ? "
the latter continued .
" Shall we go into the den and smoke ? "
Wrayford hesitated .
" If there 's anything more you want to ask me about - " " Gad , no !
I had full measure and running over this afternoon .
The deuce of it is , I do n't see where the money 's all gone to .
Luckily I 've got plenty of nerve ; I 'm not the kind of man to sit down and snivel because I 've been touched in Wall Street . "
Wrayford got to his feet again .
" Then , if you do n't want me , I think I 'll go up to my room and put some finishing touches to a brief before I turn in .
I must get back to town to - morrow afternoon . "
" All right , then . "
Stilling set down his empty glass , and held out his hand with a tinge of alacrity .
" Good night , old man . "
They shook hands , and Wrayford moved toward the door .
" I say , Austin - stop a minute ! "
his host called after him .
Wrayford turned , and the two men faced each other across the hearth - rug .
Stilling 's eyes shifted uneasily .
" There 's one thing more you can do for me before you leave .
Tell Isabel about that loan ; explain to her that she 's got to sign a note for it . "
Wrayford , in his turn , flushed slightly .
" You want me to tell her ? "
" Hang it !
I 'm soft - hearted - that 's the worst of me . "
Stilling moved toward the tray , and lifted the brandy decanter .
" And she 'll take it better from you ; she 'll have to take it from you .
She 's proud .
You can take her out for a row to - morrow morning - look here , take her out in the motor - launch if you like .
I meant to have a spin in it myself ; but if you 'll tell her - " Wrayford hesitated .
" All right , I 'll tell her . "
" Thanks a lot , my dear fellow .
And you 'll make her see it was n't my fault , eh ?
Women are awfully vague about money , and she 'll think it 's all right if you back me up . "
Wrayford nodded .
" As you please . "
" And , Austin - there 's just one more thing .
You need n't say anything to Isabel about the other business - I mean about my mother 's securities . "
" Ah ? "
said Wrayford , pausing .
Stilling shifted from one foot to the other .
" I 'd rather put that to the old lady myself .
I can make it clear to her .
She idolizes me , you know - and , hang it !
I 've got a good record .
Up to now , I mean .
My mother 's been in clover since I married ; I may say she 's been my first thought .
And I do n't want her to hear of this beastly business from Isabel .
Isabel 's a little harsh at times - and of course this is n't going to make her any easier to live with . "
" Very well , " said Wrayford .
Stilling , with a look of relief , walked toward the window which opened on the terrace .
" Gad !
what a queer night !
Hot as the kitchen - range .
Should n't wonder if we had a squall before morning .
I wonder if that infernal skipper took in the launch 's awnings before he went home . "
Wrayford stopped with his hand on the door .
" Yes , I saw him do it .
She 's shipshape for the night . "
" Good !
That saves me a run down to the shore . "
" Good night , then , " said Wrayford .
" Good night , old man .
You 'll tell her ? "
" I 'll tell her . "
" And mum about my mother ! "
his host called after him .
II The darkness had thinned a little when Wrayford scrambled down the steep path to the shore .
Though the air was heavy the threat of a storm seemed to have vanished , and now and then the moon 's edge showed above a torn slope of cloud .
But in the thick shrubbery about the boat - house the darkness was still dense , and Wrayford had to strike a match before he could find the lock and insert his key .
He left the door unlatched , and groped his way in .
How often he had crept into this warm pine - scented obscurity , guiding himself by the edge of the bench along the wall , and hearing the soft lap of water through the gaps in the flooring !
He knew just where one had to duck one 's head to avoid the two canoes swung from the rafters , and just where to put his hand on the latch of the farther door that led to the broad balcony above the lake .
The boat - house represented one of Stilling 's abandoned whims .
He had built it some seven years before , and for a time it had been the scene of incessant nautical exploits .
Stilling had rowed , sailed , paddled indefatigably , and all Highfield had been impressed to bear him company , and to admire his versatility .
Then motors had come in , and he had forsaken aquatic sports for the flying chariot .
The canoes of birch - bark and canvas had been hoisted to the roof , the sail - boat had rotted at her moorings , and the movable floor of the boat - house , ingeniously contrived to slide back on noiseless runners , had lain undisturbed through several seasons .
Even the key of the boat - house had been mislaid - by Isabel 's fault , her husband said - and the locksmith had to be called in to make a new one when the purchase of the motor - boat made the lake once more the centre of Stilling 's activity .
As Wrayford entered he noticed that a strange oily odor overpowered the usual scent of dry pine - wood ; and at the next step his foot struck an object that rolled noisily across the boards .
He lighted another match , and found he had overturned a can of grease which the boatman had no doubt been using to oil the runners of the sliding floor .
Wrayford felt his way down the length of the boathouse , and softly opening the balcony door looked out on the lake .
A few yards away , he saw the launch lying at anchor in the veiled moonlight ; and just below him , on the black water , was the dim outline of the skiff which the boatman kept to paddle out to her .
The silence was so intense that Wrayford fancied he heard a faint rustling in the shrubbery on the high bank behind the boat - house , and the crackle of gravel on the path descending to it .
He closed the door again and turned back into the darkness ; and as he did so the other door , on the land - side , swung inward , and he saw a figure in the dim opening .
Just enough light entered through the round holes above the respective doors to reveal Mrs. Stilling 's cloaked outline , and to guide her to him as he advanced .
But before they met she stumbled and gave a little cry .
" What is it ? "
he exclaimed .
" My foot caught ; the floor seemed to give way under me .
Ah , of course - " she bent down in the darkness - " I saw the men oiling it this morning . "
Wrayford caught her by the arm .
" Do take care !
It might be dangerous if it slid too easily .
The water 's deep under here . "
" Yes ; the water 's very deep .
I sometimes wish - " She leaned against him without finishing her sentence , and he put both arms about her .
" Hush ! "
he said , his lips on hers .
Suddenly she threw her head back and seemed to listen .
" What 's the matter ?
What do you hear ? "
" I do n't know . "
He felt her trembling .
" I 'm not sure this place is as safe as it used to be - " Wrayford held her to him reassuringly .
" But the boatman sleeps down at the village ; and who else should come here at this hour ? "
" Cobham might .
He thinks of nothing but the launch . ' "
" He wo n't to - night .
I told him I 'd seen the skipper put her shipshape , and that satisfied him . "
" Ah - he did think of coming , then ? "
" Only for a minute , when the sky looked so black half an hour ago , and he was afraid of a squall .
It 's clearing now , and there 's no danger . "
He drew her down on the bench , and they sat a moment or two in silence , her hands in his .
Then she said : " You 'd better tell me . "
Wrayford gave a faint laugh .
" Yes , I suppose I had .
In fact , he asked me to . "
" He asked you to ? "
" Yes . "
She uttered an exclamation of contempt .
" He 's afraid ! "
Wrayford made no reply , and she went on : " I 'm not .
Tell me everything , please . "
" Well , he 's chucked away a pretty big sum again - " " How ? "
" He says he does n't know .
He 's been speculating , I suppose .
The madness of making him your trustee ! "
She drew her hands away .
" You know why I did it .
When we married I did n't want to put him in the false position of the man who contributes nothing and accepts everything ; I wanted people to think the money was partly his . "
" I do n't know what you 've made people think ; but you 've been eminently successful in one respect .
He thinks it 's all his - and he loses it as if it were . "
" There are worse things .
What was it that he wished you to tell me ? "
" That you 've got to sign another promissory note - for fifty thousand this time . "
" Is that all ? "
Wrayford hesitated ; then he said : " Yes - for the present . "
She sat motionless , her head bent , her hand resting passively in his .
He leaned nearer .
" What did you mean just now , by worse things ? "
She hesitated .
" Have n't you noticed that he 's been drinking a great deal lately ? "
" Yes ; I 've noticed . "
They were both silent ; then Wrayford broke out , with sudden vehemence : " And yet you wo n't - " " Wo n't ? "
" Put an end to it .
Good God !
Save what 's left of your life . "
She made no answer , and in the stillness the throb of the water underneath them sounded like the beat of a tormented heart .
" Isabel - " Wrayford murmured .
He bent over to kiss her .
" Isabel !
I ca n't stand it !
listen - " " No ; no .
I 've thought of everything .
There 's the boy - the boy 's fond of him .
He 's not a bad father . "
" Except in the trifling matter of ruining his son . "
" And there 's his poor old mother .
He 's a good son , at any rate ; he 'd never hurt her .
And I know her .
If I left him , she 'd never take a penny of my money .
What she has of her own is not enough to live on ; and how could he provide for her ?
If I put him out of doors , I should be putting his mother out too . "
" You could arrange that - there are always ways . "
" Not for her !
She 's proud .
And then she believes in him .
Lots of people believe in him , you know .
It would kill her if she ever found out . "
Wrayford made an impatient movement .
" It will kill you if you stay with him to prevent her finding out . "
She laid her other hand on his .
" Not while I have you . "
" Have me ?
In this way ? "
" In any way . "
" My poor girl - poor child ! "
" Unless you grow tired - unless your patience gives out . "
He was silent , and she went on insistently : " Do n't you suppose I 've thought of that too - foreseen it ? "
" Well - and then ? "
he exclaimed .
" I 've accepted that too . "
He dropped her hands with a despairing gesture .
" Then , indeed , I waste my breath ! "
She made no answer , and for a time they sat silent again , a little between them .
At length he asked : " You 're not crying ? "
" No . "
" I ca n't see your face , it 's grown so dark . "
" Yes .
The storm must be coming . "
She made a motion as if to rise .
He drew close and put his arm about her .
" Do n't leave me yet .
You know I must go to - morrow . "
He broke off with a laugh .
" I 'm to break the news to you to - morrow morning , by the way ; I 'm to take you out in the motorlaunch and break it to you . "
He dropped her hands and stood up .
" Good God !
How can I go and leave you here with him ? "
" You 've done it often . "
" Yes ; but each time it 's more damnable .
And then I 've always had a hope - " She rose also .
" Give it up !
Give it up ! "
" You 've none , then , yourself ? "
She was silent , drawing the folds of her cloak about her .
" None - none ? "
he insisted .
He had to bend his head to hear her answer .
" Only one ! "
" What , my dearest ?
What ? "
" Do n't touch me !
That he may die ! "
They drew apart again , hearing each other 's quick breathing through the darkness .
" You wish that too ? "
he said .
" I wish it always - every day , every hour , every moment ! "
She paused , and then let the words break from her .
" You 'd better know it ; you 'd better know the worst of me .
I 'm not the saint you suppose ; the duty I do is poisoned by the thoughts I think .
Day by day , hour by hour , I wish him dead .
When he goes out I pray for something to happen ; when he comes back I say to myself : ' Are you here again ? '
When I hear of people being killed in accidents , I think : ' Why was n't he there ? '
When I read the death - notices in the paper I say : ' So - and - so was just his age . '
When I see him taking such care of his health and his diet - as he does , you know , except when he gets reckless and begins to drink too much - when I see him exercising and resting , and eating only certain things , and weighing himself , and feeling his muscles , and boasting that he has n't gained a pound , I think of the men who die from overwork , or who throw their lives away for some great object , and I say to myself : ' What can kill a man who thinks only of himself ? '
And night after night I keep myself from going to sleep for fear I may dream that he 's dead .
When I dream that , and wake and find him there it 's worse than ever - " She broke off with a sob , and the loud lapping of the water under the floor was like the beat of a rebellious heart .
" There , you know the truth ! "
she said .
He answered after a pause : " People do die . "
" Do they ? "
She laughed .
" Yes - in happy marriages ! "
They were silent again , and Isabel turned , feeling her way toward the door .
As she did so , the profound stillness was broken by the sound of a man 's voice trolling out unsteadily the refrain of a music - hall song .
The two in the boat - house darted toward each other with a simultaneous movement , clutching hands as they met .
" He 's coming ! "
Isabel said .
Wrayford disengaged his hands .
" He may only be out for a turn before he goes to bed .
Wait a minute .
I 'll see . "
He felt his way to the bench , scrambled up on it , and stretching his body forward managed to bring his eyes in line with the opening above the door .
" It 's as black as pitch .
I ca n't see anything . "
The refrain rang out nearer .
" Wait !
I saw something twinkle .
There it is again .
It 's his cigar .
It 's coming this way - down the path . "
There was a long rattle of thunder through the stillness .
" It 's the storm ! "
Isabel whispered .
" He 's coming to see about the launch . "
Wrayford dropped noiselessly from the bench and she caught him by the arm .
" Is n't there time to get up the path and slip under the shrubbery ? "
" No , he 's in the path now .
He 'll be here in two minutes .
He 'll find us . "
He felt her hand tighten on his arm .
" You must go in the skiff , then .
It 's the only way . "
" And let him find you ?
And hear my oars ?
Listen - there 's something I must say . "
She flung her arms about him and pressed her face to his .
" Isabel , just now I did n't tell you everything .
He 's ruined his mother - taken everything of hers too .
And he 's got to tell her ; it ca n't be kept from her . "
She uttered an incredulous exclamation and drew back .
" Is this the truth ?
Why did n't you tell me before ? "
" He forbade me .
You were not to know . "
Close above them , in the shrubbery , Stilling warbled : " Nita , Juanita , Ask thy soul if we must part ! "
Wrayford held her by both arms .
" Understand this - if he comes in , he 'll find us .
And if there 's a row you 'll lose your boy . "
She seemed not to hear him .
" You - you - you - he 'll kill you ! "
she exclaimed .
Wrayford laughed impatiently and released her , and she stood shrinking against the wall , her hands pressed to her breast .
Wrayford straightened himself and she felt that he was listening intently .
Then he dropped to his knees and laid his hands against the boards of the sliding floor .
It yielded at once , as if with a kind of evil alacrity ; and at their feet they saw , under the motionless solid night , another darker night that moved and shimmered .
Wrayford threw himself back against the opposite wall , behind the door .
A key rattled in the lock , and after a moment 's fumbling the door swung open .
Wrayford and Isabel saw a man 's black bulk against the obscurity .
It moved a step , lurched forward , and vanished out of sight .
From the depths beneath them there came a splash and a long cry .
" Go !
go ! "
Wrayford cried out , feeling blindly for Isabel in the blackness .
" Oh - " she cried , wrenching herself away from him .
He stood still a moment , as if dazed ; then she saw him suddenly plunge from her side , and heard another splash far down , and a tumult in the beaten water .
In the darkness she cowered close to the opening , pressing her face over the edge , and crying out the name of each of the two men in turn .
Suddenly she began to see : the obscurity was less opaque , as if a faint moon - pallor diluted it .
Isabel vaguely discerned the two shapes struggling in the black pit below her ; once she saw the gleam of a face .
She glanced up desperately for some means of rescue , and caught sight of the oars ranged on brackets against the wall .
She snatched down the nearest , bent over the opening , and pushed the oar down into the blackness , crying out her husband 's name .
The clouds had swallowed the moon again , and she could see nothing below her ; but she still heard the tumult in the beaten water .
" Cobham !
Cobham ! "
she screamed .
As if in answer , she felt a mighty clutch on the oar , a clutch that strained her arms to the breaking - point as she tried to brace her knees against the runners of the sliding floor .
" Hold on !
Hold on !
Hold on ! "
a voice gasped out from below ; and she held on , with racked muscles , with bleeding palms , with eyes straining from their sockets , and a heart that tugged at her as the weight was tugging at the oar .
Suddenly the weight relaxed , and the oar slipped up through her lacerated hands .
She felt a wet body scrambling over the edge of the opening , and Stilling 's voice , raucous and strange , groaned out , close to her : " God !
I thought I was done for . "
He staggered to his knees , coughing and sputtering , and the water dripped on her from his streaming clothes .
She flung herself down , again , straining over the pit .
Not a sound came up from it .
" Austin !
Austin !
Quick !
Another oar ! "
she shrieked .
Stilling gave a cry .
" My God !
Was it Austin ?
What in hell - Another oar ?
No , no ; untie the skiff , I tell you .
But it 's no use .
Nothing 's any use .
I felt him lose hold as I came up . "
After that she was conscious of nothing till , hours later , as it appeared to her , she became dimly aware of her husband 's voice , high , hysterical and important , haranguing a group of scared lantern - struck faces that had sprung up mysteriously about them in the night .
" Poor Austin !
Poor Wrayford ... terrible loss to me ... mysterious dispensation .
Yes , I do feel gratitude - miraculous escape - but I wish old Austin could have known that I was saved ! "
Kindness , " argued little Mrs. Pennycoop , " costs nothing . "
" And , speaking generally , my dear , is valued precisely at cost price , " retorted Mr. Pennycoop , who , as an auctioneer of twenty years ' experience , had enjoyed much opportunity of testing the attitude of the public towards sentiment .
" I do n't care what you say , George , " persisted his wife ; " he may be a disagreeable , cantankerous old brute - I do n't say he is n't .
All the same , the man is going away , and we may never see him again . "
" If I thought there was any fear of our doing so , " observed Mr. Pennycoop , " I 'd turn my back on the Church of England to - morrow and become a Methodist . "
" Do n't talk like that , George , " his wife admonished him , reprovingly ; " the Lord might be listening to you . "
" If the Lord had to listen to old Cracklethorpe He 'd sympathize with me , " was the opinion of Mr. Pennycoop .
" The Lord sends us our trials , and they are meant for our good , " explained his wife .
" They are meant to teach us patience . "
" You are not churchwarden , " retorted her husband ; " you can get away from him .
You hear him when he is in the pulpit , where , to a certain extent , he is bound to keep his temper . "
" You forget the rummage sale , George , " Mrs. Pennycoop reminded him ; " to say nothing of the church decorations . "
" The rummage sale , " Mr. Pennycoop pointed out to her , " occurs only once a year , and at that time your own temper , I have noticed - " " I always try to remember I am a Christian , " interrupted little Mrs. Pennycoop .
" I do not pretend to be a saint , but whatever I say I am always sorry for it afterwards - you know I am , George . "
" It 's what I am saying , " explained her husband .
" A vicar who has contrived in three years to make every member of his congregation hate the very sight of a church - well , there 's something wrong about it somewhere . "
Mrs. Pennycoop , gentlest of little women , laid her plump and still pretty hands upon her husband 's shoulders .
" Do n't think , dear , I have n't sympathized with you .
You have borne it nobly .
I have marvelled sometimes that you have been able to control yourself as you have done , most times ; the things that he has said to you . "
Mr. Pennycoop had slid unconsciously into an attitude suggestive of petrified virtue , lately discovered .
" One 's own poor self , " observed Mr. Pennycoop , in accents of proud humility - " insults that are merely personal one can put up with .
Though even there , " added the senior churchwarden , with momentary descent towards the plane of human nature , " nobody cares to have it hinted publicly across the vestry table that one has chosen to collect from the left side for the express purpose of artfully passing over one 's own family . "
" The children have always had their three - penny - bits ready waiting in their hands , " explained Mrs. Pennycoop , indignantly .
" It 's the sort of thing he says merely for the sake of making a disturbance , " continued the senior churchwarden .
" It 's the things he does I draw the line at . "
" The things he has done , you mean , dear , " laughed the little woman , with the accent on the " has . "
" It is all over now , and we are going to be rid of him .
I expect , dear , if we only knew , we should find it was his liver .
You know , George , I remarked to you the first day that he came how pasty he looked and what a singularly unpleasant mouth he had .
People ca n't help these things , you know , dear .
One should look upon them in the light of afflictions and be sorry for them . "
" I could forgive him doing what he does if he did n't seem to enjoy it , " said the senior churchwarden .
" But , as you say , dear , he is going , and all I hope and pray is that we never see his like again . "
" And you 'll come with me to call upon him , George , " urged kind little Mrs. Pennycoop .
" After all , he has been our vicar for three years , and he must be feeling it , poor man - whatever he may pretend - going away like this , knowing that everybody is glad to see the back of him . "
" Well , I sha'n't say anything I do n't really feel , " stipulated Mr. Pennycoop .
" That will be all right , dear , " laughed his wife , " so long as you do n't say what you do feel .
And we 'll both of us keep our temper , " further suggested the little woman , " whatever happens .
Remember , it will be for the last time . "
Little Mrs. Pennycoop 's intention was kind and Christianlike .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe would be quitting Wychwood - on - the - Heath the following Monday , never to set foot - so the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe himself and every single member of his congregation hoped sincerely - in the neighbourhood again .
Hitherto no pains had been taken on either side to disguise the mutual joy with which the parting was looked forward to .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe , M.A. , might possibly have been of service to his Church in , say , some East - end parish of unsavoury reputation , some mission station far advanced amid the hordes of heathendom .
There his inborn instinct of antagonism to everybody and everything surrounding him , his unconquerable disregard for other people 's views and feelings , his inspired conviction that everybody but himself was bound to be always wrong about everything , combined with determination to act and speak fearlessly in such belief , might have found their uses .
In picturesque little Wychwood - on - the - Heath , among the Kentish hills , retreat beloved of the retired tradesman , the spinster of moderate means , the reformed Bohemian developing latent instincts towards respectability , these qualities made only for scandal and disunion .
For the past two years the Rev.
Cracklethorpe 's parishioners , assisted by such other of the inhabitants of Wychwood - on - the - Heath as had happened to come into personal contact with the reverend gentleman , had sought to impress upon him , by hints and innuendoes difficult to misunderstand , their cordial and daily - increasing dislike of him , both as a parson and a man .
Matters had come to a head by the determination officially announced to him that , failing other alternatives , a deputation of his leading parishioners would wait upon his bishop .
This it was that had brought it home to the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe that , as the spiritual guide and comforter of Wychwood - on - the Heath , he had proved a failure .
The Rev.
Augustus had sought and secured the care of other souls .
The following Sunday morning he had arranged to preach his farewell sermon , and the occasion promised to be a success from every point of view .
Churchgoers who had not visited St. Jude 's for months had promised themselves the luxury of feeling they were listening to the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe for the last time .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe had prepared a sermon that for plain speaking and directness was likely to leave an impression .
The parishioners of St. Jude 's , Wychwood - on - the - Heath , had their failings , as we all have .
The Rev.
Augustus flattered himself that he had not missed out a single one , and was looking forward with pleasurable anticipation to the sensation that his remarks , from his " firstly " to his " sixthly and lastly , " were likely to create .
What marred the entire business was the impulsiveness of little Mrs. Pennycoop .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe , informed in his study on the Wednesday afternoon that Mr. and Mrs. Pennycoop had called , entered the drawing - room a quarter of an hour later , cold and severe ; and , without offering to shake hands , requested to be informed as shortly as possible for what purpose he had been disturbed .
Mrs. Pennycoop had had her speech ready to her tongue .
It was just what it should have been , and no more .
It referred casually , without insisting on the point , to the duty incumbent upon all of us to remember on occasion we were Christians ; that our privilege it was to forgive and forget ; that , generally speaking , there are faults on both sides ; that partings should never take place in anger ; in short , that little Mrs. Pennycoop and George , her husband , as he was waiting to say for himself , were sorry for everything and anything they may have said or done in the past to hurt the feelings of the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe , and would like to shake hands with him and wish him every happiness for the future .
The chilling attitude of the Rev.
Augustus scattered that carefully - rehearsed speech to the winds .
It left Mrs. Pennycoop nothing but to retire in choking silence , or to fling herself upon the inspiration of the moment and make up something new .
She choose the latter alternative .
At first the words came halting .
Her husband , man - like , had deserted her in her hour of utmost need and was fumbling with the door - knob .
The steely stare with which the Rev.
Cracklethorpe regarded her , instead of chilling her , acted upon her as a spur .
It put her on her mettle .
He should listen to her .
She would make him understand her kindly feeling towards him if she had to take him by the shoulders and shake it into him .
At the end of five minutes the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe , without knowing it , was looking pleased .
At the end of another five Mrs. Pennycoop stopped , not for want of words , but for want of breath .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe replied in a voice that , to his own surprise , was trembling with emotion .
Mrs. Pennycoop had made his task harder for him .
He had thought to leave Wychwood - on - the - Heath without a regret .
The knowledge he now possessed , that at all events one member of his congregation understood him , as Mrs. Pennycoop had proved to him she understood him , sympathized with him - the knowledge that at least one heart , and that heart Mrs. Pennycoop 's , had warmed to him , would transform what he had looked forward to as a blessed relief into a lasting grief .
Mr. Pennycoop , carried away by his wife 's eloquence , added a few halting words of his own .
It appeared from Mr. Pennycoop 's remarks that he had always regarded the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe as the vicar of his dreams , but misunderstandings in some unaccountable way will arise .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe , it appeared , had always secretly respected Mr. Pennycoop .
If at any time his spoken words might have conveyed the contrary impression , that must have arisen from the poverty of our language , which does not lend itself to subtle meanings .
Then following the suggestion of tea , Miss Cracklethorpe , sister to the Rev.
Augustus - a lady whose likeness to her brother in all respects was startling , the only difference between them being that while he was clean - shaven she wore a slight moustache - was called down to grace the board .
The visit was ended by Mrs. Pennycoop 's remembrance that it was Wilhelmina 's night for a hot bath .
" I said more than I intended to , " admitted Mrs. Pennycoop to George , her husband , on the way home ; " but he irritated me . "
Rumour of the Pennycoops ' visit flew through the parish .
Other ladies felt it their duty to show to Mrs. Pennycoop that she was not the only Christian in Wychwood - on - the - Heath .
Mrs. Pennycoop , it was feared , might be getting a swelled head over this matter .
The Rev.
Augustus , with pardonable pride , repeated some of the things that Mrs. Pennycoop had said to him .
Mrs. Pennycoop was not to imagine herself the only person in Wychwood - on - the - Heath capable of generosity that cost nothing .
Other ladies could say graceful nothings - could say them even better .
Husbands dressed in their best clothes and carefully rehearsed were brought in to grace the almost endless procession of disconsolate parishioners hammering at the door of St. Jude 's parsonage .
Between Thursday morning and Saturday night the Rev.
Augustus , much to his own astonishment , had been forced to the conclusion that five - sixths of his parishioners had loved him from the first without hitherto having had opportunity of expressing their real feelings .
The eventful Sunday arrived .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe had been kept so busy listening to regrets at his departure , assurances of an esteem hitherto disguised from him , explanations of seeming discourtesies that had been intended as tokens of affectionate regard , that no time had been left to him to think of other matters .
Not till he entered the vestry at five minutes to eleven did recollection of his farewell sermon come to him .
It haunted him throughout the service .
To deliver it after the revelations of the last three days would be impossible .
It was the sermon that Moses might have preached to Pharaoh the Sunday prior to the exodus .
To crush with it this congregation of broken - hearted adorers sorrowing for his departure would be inhuman .
The Rev.
Augustus tried to think of passages that might be selected , altered .
There were none .
From beginning to end it contained not a single sentence capable of being made to sound pleasant by any ingenuity whatsoever .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe climbed slowly up the pulpit steps without an idea in his head of what he was going to say .
The sunlight fell upon the upturned faces of a crowd that filled every corner of the church .
So happy , so buoyant a congregation the eyes of the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe had never till that day looked down upon .
The feeling came to him that he did not want to leave them .
That they did not wish him to go , could he doubt ?
Only by regarding them as a collection of the most shameless hypocrites ever gathered together under one roof .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe dismissed the passing suspicion as a suggestion of the Evil One , folded the neatly - written manuscript that lay before him on the desk , and put it aside .
He had no need of a farewell sermon .
The arrangements made could easily be altered .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe spoke from his pulpit for the first time an impromptu .
The Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe wished to acknowledge himself in the wrong .
Foolishly founding his judgment upon the evidence of a few men , whose names there would be no need to mention , members of the congregation who , he hoped , would one day be sorry for the misunderstandings they had caused , brethren whom it was his duty to forgive , he had assumed the parishioners of St. Jude 's , Wychwood - on - the - Heath , to have taken a personal dislike to him .
He wished to publicly apologize for the injustice he had unwittingly done to their heads and to their hearts .
He now had it from their own lips that a libel had been put upon them .
So far from their wishing his departure , it was self - evident that his going would inflict upon them a great sorrow .
With the knowledge he now possessed of the respect - one might almost say the veneration - with which the majority of that congregation regarded him - knowledge , he admitted , acquired somewhat late - it was clear to him he could still be of help to them in their spiritual need .
To leave a flock so devoted would stamp him as an unworthy shepherd .
The ceaseless stream of regrets at his departure that had been poured into his ear during the last four days he had decided at the last moment to pay heed to .
He would remain with them - on one condition .
There quivered across the sea of humanity below him a movement that might have suggested to a more observant watcher the convulsive clutchings of some drowning man at some chance straw .
But the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe was thinking of himself .
The parish was large and he was no longer a young man .
Let them provide him with a conscientious and energetic curate .
He had such a one in his mind 's eye , a near relation of his own , who , for a small stipend that was hardly worth mentioning , would , he knew it for a fact , accept the post .
The pulpit was not the place in which to discuss these matters , but in the vestry afterwards he would be pleased to meet such members of the congregation as might choose to stay .
The question agitating the majority of the congregation during the singing of the hymn was the time it would take them to get outside the church .
There still remained a faint hope that the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe , not obtaining his curate , might consider it due to his own dignity to shake from his feet the dust of a parish generous in sentiment , but obstinately close - fisted when it came to putting its hands into its pockets .
But for the parishioners of St. Jude 's that Sunday was a day of misfortune .
Before there could be any thought of moving , the Rev.
Augustus raised his surpliced arm and begged leave to acquaint them with the contents of a short note that had just been handed up to him .
It would send them all home , he felt sure , with joy and thankfulness in their hearts .
An example of Christian benevolence was among them that did honour to the Church .
Here a retired wholesale clothier from the East - end of London - a short , tubby gentleman who had recently taken the Manor House - was observed to turn scarlet .
A gentleman hitherto unknown to them had signalled his advent among them by an act of munificence that should prove a shining example to all rich men .
Mr. Horatio Copper - the reverend gentleman found some difficulty , apparently , in deciphering the name .
" Cooper - Smith , sir , with an hyphen , " came in a thin whisper , the voice of the still scarlet - faced clothier .
Mr. Horatio Cooper - Smith , taking - the Rev.
Augustus felt confident - a not unworthy means of grappling to himself thus early the hearts of his fellow - townsmen , had expressed his desire to pay for the expense of a curate entirely out of his own pocket .
Under these circumstances , there would be no further talk of a farewell between the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe and his parishioners .
It would be the hope of the Rev.
Augustus Cracklethorpe to live and die the pastor of St. Jude 's .
A more solemn - looking , sober congregation than the congregation that emerged that Sunday morning from St. Jude 's in Wychwood - on - the - Heath had never , perhaps , passed out of a church door .
" He 'll have more time upon his hands , " said Mr. Biles , retired wholesale ironmonger and junior churchwarden , to Mrs. Biles , turning the corner of Acacia Avenue - " he 'll have more time to make himself a curse and a stumbling - block . "
" And if this ' near relation ' of his is anything like him - " " Which you may depend upon it is the Case , or he 'd never have thought of him , " was the opinion of Mr. Biles .
" I shall give that Mrs. Pennycoop , " said Mrs. Biles , " a piece of my mind when I meet her . "
But of what use was that ?
The face is an object of curiosity for years or centuries , and by and by a boy is born whose features gradually assume the aspect of that portrait .
At some critical juncture the resemblance is found to be perfect .
A prophecy may be connected . '
It is not impossible that this conceit occurred to Hawthorne before he had himself seen the Old Man of the Mountain , or the Profile , in the Franconia Notch which is generally associated in the minds of readers with The Great Stone Face .
In The Ambitious Guest he has made use of the incident still told to travellers through the Notch , of the destruction of the Willey family in August , 1826 .
The house occupied by the family was on the slope of a mountain , and after a long drought there was a terrible tempest which not only raised the river to a great height but loosened the surface of the mountain so that a great landslide took place .
The house was in the track of the slide , and the family rushed out of doors .
Had they remained within they would have been safe , for a ledge above the house parted the avalanche so that it was diverted into two paths and swept past the house on either side .
Mr. and Mrs. Willey , their five children , and two hired men were crushed under the weight of earth , rocks , and trees .
In the Sketches from Memory Hawthorne gives an intimation of the tale which he might write and did afterward write of The Great Carbuncle .
The paper is interesting as showing what were the actual experiences out of which he formed his imaginative stories .
THE GREAT STONE FACE and Other Tales Of The White Mountains THE GREAT STONE FACE One afternoon , when the sun was going down , a mother and her little boy sat at the door of their cottage , talking about the Great Stone Face .
They had but to lift their eyes , and there it was plainly to be seen , though miles away , with the sunshine brightening all its features .
And what was the Great Stone Face ?
Embosomed amongst a family of lofty mountains , there was a valley so spacious that it contained many thousand inhabitants .
Some of these good people dwelt in log - huts , with the black forest all around them , on the steep and difficult hillsides .
Others had their homes in comfortable farm - houses , and cultivated the rich soil on the gentle slopes or level surfaces of the valley .
Others , again , were congregated into populous villages , where some wild , highland rivulet , tumbling down from its birthplace in the upper mountain region , had been caught and tamed by human cunning , and compelled to turn the machinery of cotton - factories .
The inhabitants of this valley , in short , were numerous , and of many modes of life .
But all of them , grown people and children , had a kind of familiarity with the Great Stone Face , although some possessed the gift of distinguishing this grand natural phenomenon more perfectly than many of their neighbors .
The Great Stone Face , then , was a work of Nature in her mood of majestie playfulness , formed on the perpendicular side of a mountain by some immense rocks , which had been thrown together in such a position as , when viewed at a proper distance , precisely to resemble the features of the human countenance .
It seemed as if an enormous giant , or a Titan , had sculptured his own likeness on the precipice .
There was the broad arch of the forehead , a hundred feet in height ; the nose , with its long bridge ; and the vast lips , which , if they could have spoken , would have rolled their thunder accents from one end of the valley to the other .
True it is , that if the spectator approached too near , he lost the outline of the gigantic visage , and could discern only a heap of ponderous and gigantic rocks , piled in chaotic ruin one upon another .
Retracing his steps , however , the wondrous features would again be seen ; and the farther he withdrew from them , the more like a human face , with all its original divinity intact , did they appear ; until , as it grew dim in the distance , with the clouds and glorified vapor of the mountains clustering about it , the Great Stone Face seemed positively to be alive .
It was a happy lot for children to grow up to manhood or womanhood with the Great Stone Face before their eyes , for all the features were noble , and the expression was at once grand and sweet , as if it were the glow of a vast , warm heart , that embraced all mankind in its affections , and had room for more .
It was an education only to look at it .
According to the belief of many people , the valley owed much of its fertility to this benign aspect that was continually beaming over it , illuminating the clouds , and infusing its tenderness into the sunshine .
As we began with saying , a mother and her little boy sat at their cottage - door , gazing at the Great Stone Face , and talking about it .
The child 's name was Ernest .
' Mother , ' said he , while the Titanic visage miled on him , ' I wish that it could speak , for it looks so very kindly that its voice must needs be pleasant .
If I were to See a man with such a face , I should love him dearly . '
' If an old prophecy should come to pass , ' answered his mother , ' we may see a man , some time for other , with exactly such a face as that . '
' What prophecy do you mean , dear mother ? '
eagerly inquired Ernest .
' Pray tell me all about it ! '
So his mother told him a story that her own mother had told to her , when she herself was younger than little Ernest ; a story , not of things that were past , but of what was yet to come ; a story , nevertheless , so very old , that even the Indians , who formerly inhabited this valley , had heard it from their forefathers , to whom , as they affirmed , it had been murmured by the mountain streams , and whispered by the wind among the tree - tops .
The purport was , that , at some future day , a child should be born hereabouts , who was destined to become the greatest and noblest personage of his time , and whose countenance , in manhood , should bear an exact resemblance to the Great Stone Face .
Not a few old - fashioned people , and young ones likewise , in the ardor of their hopes , still cherished an enduring faith in this old prophecy .
But others , who had seen more of the world , had watched and waited till they were weary , and had beheld no man with such a face , nor any man that proved to be much greater or nobler than his neighbors , concluded it to be nothing but an idle tale .
At all events , the great man of the prophecy had not yet appeared .
' O mother , dear mother ! '
cried Ernest , clapping his hands above his head , ' I do hope that I shall live to see him ! '
His mother was an affectionate and thoughtful woman , and felt that it was wisest not to discourage the generous hopes of her little boy .
So she only said to him , ' Perhaps you may . '
And Ernest never forgot the story that his mother told him .
It was always in his mind , whenever he looked upon the Great Stone Face .
He spent his childhood in the log - cottage where he was born , and was dutiful to his mother , and helpful to her in many things , assisting her much with his little hands , and more with his loving heart .
In this manner , from a happy yet often pensive child , he grew up to be a mild , quiet , unobtrusive boy , and sun - browned with labor in the fields , but with more intelligence brightening his aspect than is seen in many lads who have been taught at famous schools .
Yet Ernest had had no teacher , save only that the Great Stone Face became one to him .
When the toil of the day was over , he would gaze at it for hours , until he began to imagine that those vast features recognized him , and gave him a smile of kindness and encouragement , responsive to his own look of veneration .
We must not take upon us to affirm that this was a mistake , although the Face may have looked no more kindly at Ernest than at all the world besides .
But the secret was that the boy 's tender and confiding simplicity discerned what other people could not see ; and thus the love , which was meant for all , became his peculiar portion .
About this time there went a rumor throughout the valley , that the great man , foretold from ages long ago , who was to bear a resemblance to the Great Stone Face , had appeared at last .
It seems that , many years before , a young man had migrated from the valley and settled at a distant seaport , where , after getting together a little money , he had set up as a shopkeeper .
His name but I could never learn whether it was his real one , or a nickname that had grown out of his habits and success in life - was Gathergold .
Being shrewd and active , and endowed by Providence with that inscrutable faculty which develops itself in what the world calls luck , he became an exceedingly rich merchant , and owner of a whole fleet of bulky - bottomed ships .
All the countries of the globe appeared to join hands for the mere purpose of adding heap after heap to the mountainous accumulation of this one man 's wealth .
The cold regions of the north , almost within the gloom and shadow of the Arctic Circle , sent him their tribute in the shape of furs ; hot Africa sifted for him the golden sands of her rivers , and gathered up the ivory tusks of her great elephants out of the forests ; the east came bringing him the rich shawls , and spices , and teas , and the effulgence of diamonds , and the gleaming purity of large pearls .
The ocean , not to be behindhand with the earth , yielded up her mighty whales , that Mr. Gathergold might sell their oil , and make a profit on it .
Be the original commodity what it might , it was gold within his grasp .
It might be said of him , as of Midas , in the fable , that whatever he touched with his finger immediately glistened , and grew yellow , and was changed at once into sterling metal , or , which suited him still better , into piles of coin .
And , when Mr. Gathergold had become so very rich that it would have taken him a hundred years only to count his wealth , he bethought himself of his native valley , and resolved to go back thither , and end his days where he was born .
With this purpose in view , he sent a skilful architect to build him such a palace as should be fit for a man of his vast wealth to live in .
As I have said above , it had already been rumored in the valley that Mr. Gathergold had turned out to be the prophetic personage so long and vainly looked for , and that his visage was the perfect and undeniable similitude of the Great Stone Face .
People were the more ready to believe that this must needs be the fact , when they beheld the splendid edifice that rose , as if by enchantment , on the site of his father 's old weather - beaten farmhouse .
The exterior was of marble , so dazzlingly white that it seemed as though the whole structure might melt away in the sunshine , like those humbler ones which Mr. Gathergold , in his young play - days , before his fingers were gifted with the touch of transmutation , had been accustomed to build of snow .
It had a richly ornamented portico supported by tall pillars , beneath which was a lofty door , studded with silver knobs , and made of a kind of variegated wood that had been brought from beyond the sea .
The windows , from the floor to the ceiling of each stately apartment , were composed , respectively of but one enormous pane of glass , so transparently pure that it was said to be a finer medium than even the vacant atmosphere .
Hardly anybody had been permitted to see the interior of this palace ; but it was reported , and with good semblance of truth , to be far more gorgeous than the outside , insomuch that whatever was iron or brass in other houses was silver or gold in this ; and Mr. Gathergold 's bedchamber , especially , made such a glittering appearance that no ordinary man would have been able to close his eyes there .
But , on the other hand , Mr. Gathergold was now so inured to wealth , that perhaps he could not have closed his eyes unless where the gleam of it was certain to find its way beneath his eyelids .
In due time , the mansion was finished ; next came the upholsterers , with magnificent furniture ; then , a whole troop of black and white servants , the haringers of Mr. Gathergold , who , in his own majestic person , was expected to arrive at sunset .
Our friend Ernest , meanwhile , had been deeply stirred by the idea that the great man , the noble man , the man of prophecy , after so many ages of delay , was at length to be made manifest to his native valley .
He knew , boy as he was , that there were a thousand ways in which Mr. Gathergold , with his vast wealth , might transform himself into an angel of beneficence , and assume a control over human affairs as wide and benignant as the smile of the Great Stone Face .
Full of faith and hope , Ernest doubted not that what the people said was true , and that now he was to behold the living likeness of those wondrous features on the mountainside .
While the boy was still gazing up the valley , and fancying , as he always did , that the Great Stone Face returned his gaze and looked kindly at him , the rumbling of wheels was heard , approaching swiftly along the winding road .
' Here he comes ! '
cried a group of people who were assembled to witness the arrival .
' Here comes the great Mr.
Gathergold ! '
A carriage , drawn by four horses , dashed round the turn of the road .
Within it , thrust partly out of the window , appeared the physiognomy of the old man , with a skin as yellow as if his own Midas - hand had transmuted it .
He had a low forehead , small , sharp eyes , puckered about with innumerable wrinkles , and very thin lips , which he made still thinner by pressing them forcibly together .
' The very image or the Great Stone Face ! '
shouted the people .
' Sure enough , the old prophecy is true ; and here we have the great man come , at last ! '
And , what greatly perplexed Ernest , they seemed actually to believe that here was the likeness which they spoke of .
By the roadside there chanced to be an old beggar woman and two little beggar - children , stragglers from some far - off region , who , as the carriage rolled onward , held out their hands and lifted up their doleful voices , most piteously beseeching charity .
A yellow claw the very same that had dawed together so much wealth - poked itself out of the coach - window , and dropt some copper coins upon the ground ; so that , though the great man 's name seems to have been Gathergold , he might just as suitably have been nicknamed Scattercopper .
Still , nevertheless , with an earnest shout , and evidently with as much good faith as ever , the people bellowed ' He is the very image of the Great Stone Face ! '
But Ernest turned sadly from the wrinkled shrewdness of that sordid visage , and gazed up the valley , where , amid a gathering mist , gilded by the last sunbeams , he could still distinguish those glorious features which had impressed themselves into his soul .
Their aspect cheered him .
What did the benign lips seem to say ?
' He will come !
Fear not , Ernest ; the man will come ! '
The years went on , and Ernest ceased to be a boy .
He had grown to be a young man now .
He attracted little notice from the other inhabitants of the valley ; for they saw nothing remarkable in his way of life , save that , when the labor of the day was over , he still loved to go apart and gaze and meditate upon the Great Stone Face .
According to their idea of the matter , it was a folly , indeed , but pardonable , inasmuch as Ernest was industrious , kind , and neighborly , and neglected no duty for the sake of indulging this idle habit .
They knew not that the Great Stone Face had become a teacher to him , and that the sentiment which was expressed in it would enlarge the young man 's heart , and fill it with wider and deeper sympathies than other hearts .
They knew not that thence would come a better wisdom than could be learned from books , and a better life than could be moulded on the defaced example of other human lives .
Neither did Ernest know that the thoughts and affections which came to him so naturally , in the fields and at the fireside , and wherever he communed with himself , were of a higher tone than those which all men shared with him .
A simple soul - simple as when his mother first taught him the old prophecy - he beheld the marvellous features beaming adown the valley , and still wondered that their human counterpart was so long in making his appearance .
By this time poor Mr. Gathergold was dead and buried ; and the oddest part of the matter was , that his wealth , which was the body and spirit of his existence , had disappeared before his death , leaving nothing of him but a living skeleton , covered over with a wrinkled , yellow skin .
Since the melting away of his gold , it had been very generally conceded that there was no such striking resemblance , after all , betwixt the ignoble features of the ruined merchant and that majestic face upon the mountainside .
So the people ceased to honor him during his lifetime , and quietly consigned him to forgetfulness after his decease .
Once in a while , it is true , his memory was brought up in connection with the magnificent palace which he had built , and which had long ago been turned into a hotel for the accommodation of strangers , multitudes of whom came , every summer , to visit that famous natural curiosity , the Great Stone Face .
Thus , Mr. Gathergold being discredited and thrown into the shade , the man of prophecy was yet to come .
It so happened that a native - born son of the valley , many years before , had enlisted as a soldier , and , after a great deal of hard fighting , had now become an illustrious commander .
Whatever he may be called in history , he was known in camps and on the battlefield under the nickname of Old Blood - and - Thunder .
This war - worn veteran , being now infirm with age and wounds , and weary of the turmoil of a military life , and of the roll of the drum and the clangor of the trumpet , that had so long been ringing in his ears , had lately signified a purpose of returning to his native valley , hoping to find repose where he remembered to have left it .
The inhabitants , his old neighbors and their grown - up children , were resolved to welcome the renowned warrior with a salute of cannon and a public dinner ; and all the more enthusiastically , it being affirmed that now , at last , the likeness of the Great Stone Face had actually appeared .
An aid - de - camp of Old Blood - and - Thunder , travelling through the valley , was said to have been struck with the resemblance .
Moreover the schoolmates and early acquaintances of the general were ready to testify , on oath , that , to the best of their recollection , the aforesaid general had been exceedingly like the majestic image , even when a boy , only that the idea had never occurred to them at that period .
Great , therefore , was the excitement throughout the valley ; and many people , who had never once thought of glancing at the Great Stone Face for years before , now spent their time in gazing at it , for the sake of knowing exactly how General Blood - and - Thunder looked .
On the day of the great festival , Ernest , with all the other people of the valley , left their work , and proceeded to the spot where the sylvan banquet was prepared .
As he approached , the loud voice of the Rev.
Dr. Battleblast was heard , beseeching a blessing on the good things set before them , and on the distinguished friend of peace in whose honor they were assembled .
The tables were arranged in a cleared space of the woods , shut in by the surrounding trees , except where a vista opened eastward , and afforded a distant view of the Great Stone Face .
Over the general 's chair , which was a relic from the home of Washington , there was an arch of verdant boughs , with the laurel profusely intermixed , and surmounted by his country 's banner , beneath which he had won his victories .
Our friend Ernest raised himself on his tiptoes , in hopes to get a glimpse of the celebrated guest ; but there was a mighty crowd about the tables anxious to hear the toasts and speeches , and to catch any word that might fall from the general in reply ; and a volunteer company , doing duty as a guard , pricked ruthlessly with their bayonets at any particularly quiet person among the throng .
So Ernest , being of an unobtrusive character , was thrust quite into the background , where he could see no more of Old Blood - and - Thunder 's physiognomy than if it had been still blazing on the battlefield .
To console himself , he turned towards the Great Stone Face , which , like a faithful and long - remembered friend , looked back and smiled upon him through the vista of the forest .
Meantime , however , he could overhear the remarks of various individuals , who were comparing the features of the hero with the face on the distant mountainside .
" T is the same face , to a hair ! '
cried one man , cutting a caper for joy .
' Wonderfully like , that 's a fact ! '
responded another .
' Like !
why , I call it Old Blood - and - Thunder himself , in a monstrous looking - glass ! '
cried a third .
' And why not ?
He 's the greatest man of this or any other age , beyond a doubt . '
And then all three of the speakers gave a great shout , which communicated electricity to the crowd , and called forth a roar from a thousand voices , that went reverberating for miles among the mountains , until you might have supposed that the Great Stone Face had poured its thunder - breath into the cry .
All these comments , and this vast enthusiasm , served the more to interest our friend ; nor did he think of questioning that now , at length , the mountain - visage had found its human counterpart .
It is true , Ernest had imagined that this long - looked - for personage would appear in the character of a man of peace , uttering wisdom , and doing good , and making people happy .
But , taking an habitual breadth of view , with all his simplicity , he contended that providence should choose its own method of blessing mankind , and could conceive that this great end might be effected even by a warrior and a bloody sword , should inscrutable wisdom see fit to order matters SO .
' The general !
the general ! '
was now the cry .
' Hush !
silence !
Old Blood - and - Thunder 's going to make a speech . '
Even so ; for , the cloth being removed , the general 's health had been drunk , amid shouts of applause , and he now stood upon his feet to thank the company .
Ernest saw him .
There he was , over the shoulders of the crowd , from the two glittering epaulets and embroidered collar upward , beneath the arch of green boughs with intertwined laurel , and the banner drooping as if to shade his brow !
And there , too , visible in the same glance , through the vista of the forest , appeared the Great Stone Face !
And was there , indeed , such a resemblance as the crowd had testified ?
Alas , Ernest could not recognize it !
He beheld a war - worn and weather - beaten countenance , full of energy , and expressive of an iron will ; but the gentle wisdom , the deep , broad , tender sympathies , were altogether wanting in Old Blood - and - Thunder 's visage ; and even if the Great Stone Face had assumed his look of stern command , the milder traits would still have tempered it .
' This is not the man of prophecy , ' sighed Ernest to himself , as he made his way out of the throng .
' And must the world wait longer yet ? '
The mists had congregated about the distant mountainside , and there were seen the grand and awful features of the Great Stone Face , awful but benignant , as if a mighty angel were sitting among the hills , and enrobing himself in a cloud - vesture of gold and purple .
As he looked , Ernest could hardly believe but that a smile beamed over the whole visage , with a radiance still brightening , although without motion of the lips .
It was probably the effect of the western sunshine , melting through the thinly diffused vapors that had swept between him and the object that he gazed at .
But - as it always did - the aspect of his marvellous friend made Ernest as hopeful as if he had never hoped in vain .
' Fear not , Ernest , ' said his heart , even as if the Great Face were whispering him - ' fear not , Ernest ; he will come . '
More years sped swiftly and tranquilly away .
Ernest still dwelt in his native valley , and was now a man of middle age .
By imperceptible degrees , he had become known among the people .
Now , as heretofore , he labored for his bread , and was the same simple - hearted man that he had always been .
But he had thought and felt so much , he had given so many of the best hours of his life to unworldly hopes for some great good to mankind , that it seemed as though he had been talking with the angels , and had imbibed a portion of their wisdom unawares .
It was visible in the calm and well - considered beneficence of his daily life , the quiet stream of which had made a wide green margin all along its course .
Not a day passed by , that the world was not the better because this man , humble as he was , had lived .
He never stepped aside from his own path , yet would always reach a blessing to his neighbor .
Almost involuntarily , too , he had become a preacher .
The pure and high simplicity of his thought , which , as one of its manifestations , took shape in the good deeds that dropped silently from his hand , flowed also forth in speech .
He uttered truths that wrought upon and moulded the lives of those who heard him .
His auditors , it may be , never suspected that Ernest , their own neighbor and familiar friend , was more than an ordinary man ; least of all did Ernest himself suspect it ; but , inevitably as the murmur of a rivulet , came thoughts out of his mouth that no other human lips had spoken .
When the people 's minds had had a little time to cool , they were ready enough to acknowledge their mistake in imagining a similarity between General Blood - and - Thunder 's truculent physiognomy and the benign visage on the mountain - side .
But now , again , there were reports and many paragraphs in the newspapers , affirming that the likeness of the Great Stone Face had appeared upon the broad shoulders of a certain eminent statesman .
He , like Mr. Gathergold and old Blood - and - Thunder , was a native of the valley , but had left it in his early days , and taken up the trades of law and politics .
Instead of the rich man 's wealth and the warrior 's sword , he had but a tongue , and it was mightier than both together .
So wonderfully eloquent was he , that whatever he might choose to say , his auditors had no choice but to believe him ; wrong looked like right , and right like wrong ; for when it pleased him , he could make a kind of illuminated fog with his mere breath , and obscure the natural daylight with it .
His tongue , indeed , was a magic instrument : sometimes it rumbled like the thunder ; sometimes it warbled like the sweetest music .
It was the blast of war - the song of peace ; and it seemed to have a heart in it , when there was no such matter .
In good truth , he was a wondrous man ; and when his tongue had acquired him all other imaginable success - when it had been heard in halls of state , and in the courts of princes and potentates - after it had made him known all over the world , even as a voice crying from shore to shore - it finally persuaded his countrymen to select him for the Presidency .
Before this time - indeed , as soon as he began to grow celebrated - his admirers had found out the resemblance between him and the Great Stone Face ; and so much were they struck by it , that throughout the country this distinguished gentleman was known by the name of Old Stony Phiz .
The phrase was considered as giving a highly favorable aspect to his political prospects ; for , as is likewise the case with the Popedom , nobody ever becomes President without taking a name other than his own .
While his friends were doing their best to make him President , Old Stony Phiz , as he was called , set out on a visit to the valley where he was born .
Of course , he had no other object than to shake hands with his fellow - citizens , and neither thought nor cared about any effect which his progress through the country might have upon the election .
Magnificent preparations were made to receive the illustrious statesman ; a cavalcade of horsemen set forth to meet him at the boundary line of the State , and all the people left their business and gathered along the wayside to see him pass .
Among these was Ernest .
Though more than once disappointed , as we have seen , he had such a hopeful and confiding nature , that he was always ready to believe in whatever seemed beautiful and good .
He kept his heart continually open , and thus was sure to catch the blessing from on high when it should come .
So now again , as buoyantly as ever , he went forth to behold the likeness of the Great Stone Face .
The cavalcade came prancing along the road , with a great clattering of hoofs and a mighty cloud of dust , which rose up so dense and high that the visage of the mountainside was completely hidden from Ernest 's eyes .
All the great men of the neighborhood were there on horseback ; militia officers , in uniform ; the member of Congress ; the sheriff of the county ; the editors of newspapers ; and many a farmer , too , had mounted his patient steed , with his Sunday coat upon his back .
It really was a very brilliant spectacle , especially as there were numerous banners flaunting over the cavalcade , on some of which were gorgeous portraits of the illustrious statesman and the Great Stone Face , smiling familiarly at one another , like two brothers .
If the pictures were to be trusted , the mutual resemblance , it must be confessed , was marvellous .
We must not forget to mention that there was a band of music , which made the echoes of the mountains ring and reverberate with the loud triumph of its strains ; so that airy and soul - thrilling melodies broke out among all the heights and hollows , as if every nook of his native valley had found a voice , to welcome the distinguished guest .
But the grandest effect was when the far - off mountain precipice flung back the music ; for then the Great Stone Face itself seemed to be swelling the triumphant chorus , in acknowledgment , that , at length , the man of prophecy was come .
All this while the people were throwing up their hats and shouting , with enthusiasm so contagious that the heart of Ernest kindled up , and he likewise threw up his hat , and shouted , as loudly as the loudest , ' Huzza for the great man !
Huzza for Old Stony Phiz ! '
But as yet he had not seen him .
' Here he is , now ! '
cried those who stood near Ernest .
' There !
There !
Look at Old Stony Phiz and then at the Old Man of the Mountain , and see if they are not as like as two twin brothers ! '
In the midst of all this gallant array came an open barouche , drawn by four white horses ; and in the barouche , with his massive head uncovered , sat the illustrious statesman , Old Stony Phiz himself .
' Confess it , ' said one of Ernest 's neighbors to him , ' the Great Stone Face has met its match at last ! '
Now , it must be owned that , at his first glimpse of the countenance which was bowing and smiling from the barouche , Ernest did fancy that there was a resemblance between it and the old familiar face upon the mountainside .
The brow , with its massive depth and loftiness , and all the other features , indeed , were boldly and strongly hewn , as if in emulation of a more than heroic , of a Titanic model .
But the sublimity and stateliness , the grand expression of a divine sympathy , that illuminated the mountain visage and etherealized its ponderous granite substance into spirit , might here be sought in vain .
Something had been originally left out , or had departed .
And therefore the marvellously gifted statesman had always a weary gloom in the deep caverns of his eyes , as of a child that has outgrown its playthings or a man of mighty faculties and little aims , whose life , with all its high performances , was vague and empty , because no high purpose had endowed it with reality .
Still , Ernest 's neighbor was thrusting his elbow into his side , and pressing him for an answer .
' Confess !
confess !
Is not he the very picture of your Old Man of the Mountain ? '
' No ! '
said Ernest , bluntly , ' I see little or no likeness . '
' Then so much the worse for the Great Stone Face ! '
answered his neighbor ; and again he set up a shout for Old Stony Phiz .
But Ernest turned away , melancholy , and almost despondent : for this was the saddest of his disappointments , to behold a man who might have fulfilled the prophecy , and had not willed to do so .
Meantime , the cavalcade , the banners , the music , and the barouches swept past him , with the vociferous crowd in the rear , leaving the dust to settle down , and the Great Stone Face to be revealed again , with the grandeur that it had worn for untold centuries .
' Lo , here I am , Ernest ! '
the benign lips seemed to say .
' I have waited longer than thou , and am not yet weary .
Fear not ; the man will come . '
The years hurried onward , treading in their haste on one another 's heels .
And now they began to bring white hairs , and scatter them over the head of Ernest ; they made reverend wrinkles across his forehead , and furrows in his cheeks .
He was an aged man .
But not in vain had he grown old : more than the white hairs on his head were the sage thoughts in his mind ; his wrinkles and furrows were inscriptions that Time had graved , and in which he had written legends of wisdom that had been tested by the tenor of a life .
And Ernest had ceased to be obscure .
Unsought for , undesired , had come the fame which so many seek , and made him known in the great world , beyond the limits of the valley in which he had dwelt so quietly .
College professors , and even the active men of cities , came from far to see and converse with Ernest ; for the report had gone abroad that this simple husbandman had ideas unlike those of other men , not gained from books , but of a higher tone - a tranquil and familiar majesty , as if he had been talking with the angels as his daily friends .
Whether it were sage , statesman , or philanthropist , Ernest received these visitors with the gentle sincerity that had characterized him from boyhood , and spoke freely with them of whatever came uppermost , or lay deepest in his heart or their own .
While they talked together , his face would kindle , unawares , and shine upon them , as with a mild evening light .
Pensive with the fulness of such discourse , his guests took leave and went their way ; and passing up the valley , paused to look at the Great Stone Face , imagining that they had seen its likeness in a human countenance , but could not remember where .
While Ernest had been growing up and growing old , a bountiful Providence had granted a new poet to this earth .
He , likewise , was a native of the valley , but had spent the greater part of his life at a distance from that romantic region , pouring out his sweet music amid the bustle and din of cities .
Often , however , did the mountains which had been familiar to him in his childhood lift their snowy peaks into the clear atmosphere of his poetry .
Neither was the Great Stone Face forgotten , for the poet had celebrated it in an ode , which was grand enough to have been uttered by its own majestic lips .
This man of genius , we may say , had come down from heaven with wonderful endowments .
If he sang of a mountain , the eyes of all mankind beheld a mightier grandeur reposing on its breast , or soaring to its summit , than had before been seen there .
If his theme were a lovely lake , a celestial smile had now been thrown over it , to gleam forever on its surface .
If it were the vast old sea , even the deep immensity of its dread bosom seemed to swell the higher , as if moved by the emotions of the song .
Thus the world assumed another and a better aspect from the hour that the poet blessed it with his happy eyes .
The Creator had bestowed him , as the last best touch to his own handiwork .
Creation was not finished till the poet came to interpret , and so complete it .
The effect was no less high and beautiful , when his human brethren were the subject of his verse .
The man or woman , sordid with the common dust of life , who crossed his daily path , and the little child who played in it , were glorified if they beheld him in his mood of poetic faith .
He showed the golden links of the great chain that intertwined them with an angelic kindred ; he brought out the hidden traits of a celestial birth that made them worthy of such kin .
Some , indeed , there were , who thought to show the soundness of their judgment by affirming that all the beauty and dignity of the natural world existed only in the poet 's fancy .
Let such men speak for themselves , who undoubtedly appear to have been spawned forth by Nature with a contemptuous bitterness ; she plastered them up out of her refuse stuff , after all the swine were made .
As respects all things else , the poet 's ideal was the truest truth .
The songs of this poet found their way to Ernest .
He read them after his customary toil , seated on the bench before his cottage - door , where for such a length of time he had filled his repose with thought , by gazing at the Great Stone Face .
And now as he read stanzas that caused the soul to thrill within him , he lifted his eyes to the vast countenance beaming on him so benignantly .
' O majestic friend , ' he murmured , addressing the Great Stone Face , ' is not this man worthy to resemble thee ? '
The face seemed to smile , but answered not a word .
Now it happened that the poet , though he dwelt so far away , had not only heard of Ernest , but had meditated much upon his character , until he deemed nothing so desirable as to meet this man , whose untaught wisdom walked hand in hand with the noble simplicity of his life .
One summer morning , therefore , he took passage by the railroad , and , in the decline of the afternoon , alighted from the cars at no great distance from Ernest 's cottage .
The great hotel , which had formerly been the palace of Mr. Gathergold , was close at hand , but the poet , with his carpetbag on his arm , inquired at once where Ernest dwelt , and was resolved to be accepted as his guest .
Approaching the door , he there found the good old man , holding a volume in his hand , which alternately he read , and then , with a finger between the leaves , looked lovingly at the Great Stone Face .
' Good evening , ' said the poet .
' Can you give a traveller a night 's lodging ? '
' Willingly , ' answered Ernest ; and then he added , smiling , ' Methinks I never saw the Great Stone Face look so hospitably at a stranger . '
The poet sat down on the bench beside him , and he and Ernest talked together .
Often had the poet held intercourse with the wittiest and the wisest , but never before with a man like Ernest , whose thoughts and feelings gushed up with such a natural feeling , and who made great truths so familiar by his simple utterance of them .
Angels , as had been so often said , seemed to have wrought with him at his labor in the fields ; angels seemed to have sat with him by the fireside ; and , dwelling with angels as friend with friends , he had imbibed the sublimity of their ideas , and imbued it with the sweet and lowly charm of household words .
So thought the poet .
And Ernest , on the other hand , was moved and agitated by the living images which the poet flung out of his mind , and which peopled all the air about the cottage - door with shapes of beauty , both gay and pensive .
The sympathies of these two men instructed them with a profounder sense than either could have attained alone .
Their minds accorded into one strain , and made delightful music which neither of them could have claimed as all his own , nor distinguished his own share from the other 's .
They led one another , as it were , into a high pavilion of their thoughts , so remote , and hitherto so dim , that they had never entered it before , and so beautiful that they desired to be there always .
As Ernest listened to the poet , he imagined that the Great Stone Face was bending forward to listen too .
He gazed earnestly into the poet 's glowing eyes .
' Who are you , my strangely gifted guest ? '
he said .
The poet laid his finger on the volume that Ernest had been reading .
' You have read these poems , ' said he .
' You know me , then - for I wrote them . '
Again , and still more earnestly than before , Ernest examined the poet 's features ; then turned towards the Great Stone Face ; then back , with an uncertain aspect , to his guest .
But his countenance fell ; he shook his head , and sighed .
' Wherefore are you sad ? '
inquired the poet .
' Because , ' replied Ernest , ' all through life I have awaited the fulfilment of a prophecy ; and , when I read these poems , I hoped that it might be fulfilled in you . '
' You hoped , ' answered the poet , faintly smiling , ' to find in me the likeness of the Great Stone Face .
And you are disappointed , as formerly with Mr. Gathergold , and old Blood - and - Thunder , and Old Stony Phiz .
Yes , Ernest , it is my doom .
You must add my name to the illustrious three , and record another failure of your hopes .
For - in shame and sadness do I speak it , Ernest - I am not worthy to be typified by yonder benign and majestic image . '
' And why ? '
asked Ernest .
He pointed to the volume .
' Are not those thoughts divine ? '
' They have a strain of the Divinity , ' replied the poet .
' You can hear in them the far - off echo of a heavenly song .
But my life , dear Ernest , has not corresponded with my thought .
I have had grand dreams , but they have been only dreams , because I have lived - and that , too , by my own choice among poor and mean realities .
Sometimes , even - shall I dare to say it ?
- I lack faith in the grandeur , the beauty , and the goodness , which my own works are said to have made more evident in nature and in human life .
Why , then , pure seeker of the good and true , shouldst thou hope to find me , in yonder image of the divine ? '
The poet spoke sadly , and his eyes were dim with tears .
So , likewise , were those of Ernest .
At the hour of sunset , as had long been his frequent custom , Ernest was to discourse to an assemblage of the neighboring inhabitants in the open air .
He and the poet , arm in arm , still talking together as they went along , proceeded to the spot .
It was a small nook among the hills , with a gray precipice behind , the stern front of which was relieved by the pleasant foliage of many creeping plants that made a tapestry for the naked rock , by hanging their festoons from all its rugged angles .
At a small elevation above the ground , set in a rich framework of verdure , there appeared a niche , spacious enough to admit a human figure , with freedom for such gestures as spontaneously accompany earnest thought and genuine emotion .
Into this natural pulpit Ernest ascended , and threw a look of familiar kindness around upon his audience .
They stood , or sat , or reclined upon the grass , as seemed good to each , with the departing sunshine falling obliquely over them , and mingling its subdued cheerfulness with the solemnity of a grove of ancient trees , beneath and amid the boughs of which the golden rays were constrained to pass .
In another direction was seen the Great Stone Face , with the same cheer , combined with the same solemnity , in its benignant aspect .
Ernest began to speak , giving to the people of what was in his heart and mind .
His words had power , because they accorded with his thoughts ; and his thoughts had reality and depth , because they harmonized with the life which he had always lived .
It was not mere breath that this preacher uttered ; they were the words of life , because a life of good deeds and holy love was melted into them .
Pearls , pure and rich , had been dissolved into this precious draught .
The poet , as he listened , felt that the being and character of Ernest were a nobler strain of poetry than he had ever written .
His eyes glistening with tears , he gazed reverentially at the venerable man , and said within himself that never was there an aspect so worthy of a prophet and a sage as that mild , sweet , thoughtful countenance , with the glory of white hair diffused about it .
At a distance , but distinctly to be seen , high up in the golden light of the setting sun , appeared the Great Stone Face , with hoary mists around it , like the white hairs around the brow of Ernest .
Its look of grand beneficence seemed to embrace the world .
At that moment , in sympathy with a thought which he was about to utter , the face of Ernest assumed a grandeur of expression , so imbued with benevolence , that the poet , by an irresistible impulse , threw his arms aloft and shouted - ' Behold !
Behold !
Ernest is himself the likeness of the Great Stone Face ! '
Then all the people looked and saw that what the deep - sighted poet said was true .
The prophecy was fulfilled .
But Ernest , having finished what he had to say , took the poet 's arm , and walked slowly homeward , still hoping that some wiser and better man than himself would by and by appear , bearing a resemblance to the GREAT STONE FACE .
THE AMBITIOUS GUEST One September night a family had gathered round their hearth , and piled it high with the driftwood of mountain streams , the dry cones of the pine , and the splintered ruins of great trees that had come crashing down the precipice .
Up the chimney roared the fire , and brightened the room with its broad blaze .
The faces of the father and mother had a sober gladness ; the children laughed ; the eldest daughter was the image of Happiness at seventeen ; and the aged grandmother who sat knitting in the warmest place , was the image of Happiness grown old .
They had found the ' herb , heart 's - ease , ' in the bleakest spot of all New England .
( This family were situated in the Notch of the White Hills , where the wind was sharp throughout the year , and pitilessly cold in the winter - giving their cottage all its fresh inclemency before it descended on the valley of the Saco ) They dwelt in a cold spot and a dangerous one ; for a mountain towered above their heads , so steep , that the stones would often rumble down its sides and startle them at midnight .
The daughter had just uttered some simple jest that filled them all with mirth , when the wind came through the Notch and seemed to pause before their cottage - rattling the door , with a sound of wailing and lamentation , before it passed into the valley .
For a moment it saddened them , though there was nothing unusual in the tones .
But the family were glad again when they perceived that the latch was lifted by some traveller , whose footsteps had been unheard amid the dreary blast which heralded his approach , and wailed as he was entering , and went moaning away from the door .
Though they dwelt in such a solitude , these people held daily converse with the world .
The romantic pass of the Notch is a great artery , through which the life - blood of internal commerce is continually throbbing between Maine , on one side , and the Green Mountains and the shores of the St. Lawrence , on the other .
The stage - coach always drew up before the door of the cottage .
The wayfarer , with no companion but his staff , paused here to exchange a word , that the sense of loneliness might not utterly overcome him ere he could pass through the cleft of the mountain , or reach the first house in the valley .
And here the teamster , on his way to Portland market , would put up for the night ; and , if a bachelor , might sit an hour beyond the usual bedtime , and steal a kiss from the mountain maid at parting .
It was one of those primitive taverns where the traveller pays only for food and lodging , but meets with a homely kindness beyond all price .
When the footsteps were heard , therefore , between the outer door and the inner one , the whole family rose up , grandmother , children , and all , as if about to welcome some one who belonged to them , and whose fate was linked with theirs .
The door was opened by a young man .
His face at first wore the melancholy expression , almost despondency , of one who travels a wild and bleak road , at nightfall and alone , but soon brightened up when he saw the kindly warmth of his reception .
He felt his heart spring forward to meet them all , from the old woman , who wiped a chair with her apron , to the little child that held out its arms to him .
One glance and smile placed the stranger on a footing of innocent familiarity with the eldest daughter .
' Ah , this fire is the right thing ! '
cried he ; ' especially when there is such a pleasant circle round it .
I am quite benumbed ; for the Notch is just like the pipe of a great pair of bellows ; it has blown a terrible blast in my face all the way from Bartlett . '
' Then you are going towards Vermont ? '
said the master of the house , as he helped to take a light knapsack off the young man 's shoulders .
' Yes ; to Burlington , and far enough beyond , ' replied he .
' I meant to have been at Ethan Crawford 's tonight ; but a pedestrian lingers along such a road as this .
It is no matter ; for , when I saw this good fire , and all your cheerful faces , I felt as if you had kindled it on purpose for me , and were waiting my arrival .
So I shall sit down among you , and make myself at home . '
The frank - hearted stranger had just drawn his chair to the fire when something like a heavy footstep was heard without , rushing down the steep side of the mountain , as with long and rapid strides , and taking such a leap in passing the cottage as to strike the opposite precipice .
The family held their breath , because they knew the sound , and their guest held his by instinct .
' The old mountain has thrown a stone at us , for fear we should forget him , ' said the landlord , recovering himself .
' He sometimes nods his head and threatens to come down ; but we are old neighbors , and agree together pretty well upon the whole .
Besides we have a sure place of refuge hard by if he should be coming in good earnest . '
Let us now suppose the stranger to have finished his supper of bear 's meat ; and , by his natural felicity of manner , to have placed himself on a footing of kindness with the whole family , so that they talked as freely together as if he belonged to their mountain brood .
He was of a proud , yet gentle spirit - haughty and reserved among the rich and great ; but ever ready to stoop his head to the lowly cottage door , and be like a brother or a son at the poor man 's fireside .
In the household of the Notch he found warmth and simplicity of feeling , the pervading intelligence of New England , and a poetry of native growth , which they had gathered when they little thought of it from the mountain peaks and chasms , and at the very threshold of their romantic and dangerous abode .
He had travelled far and alone ; his whole life , indeed , had been a solitary path ; for , with the lofty caution of his nature , he had kept himself apart from those who might otherwise have been his companions .
The family , too , though so kind and hospitable , had that consciousness of unity among themselves , and separation from the world at large , which , in every domestic circle , should still keep a holy place where no stranger may intrude .
But this evening a prophetic sympathy impelled the refined and educated youth to pour out his heart before the simple mountaineers , and constrained them to answer him with the same free confidence .
And thus it should have been .
Is not the kindred of a common fate a closer tie than that of birth ?
The secret of the young man 's character was a high and abstracted ambition .
He could have borne to live an undistinguished life , but not to be forgotten in the grave .
Yearning desire had been transformed to hope ; and hope , long cherished , had become like certainty , that , obscurely as he journeyed now , a glory was to beam on all his pathway - though not , perhaps , while he was treading it .
But when posterity should gaze back into the gloom of what was now the present , they would trace the brightness of his footsteps , brightening as meaner glories faded , and confess that a gifted one had passed from his cradle to his tomb with none to recognize him .
' As yet , ' cried the stranger - his cheek glowing and his eye flashing with enthusiasm - ' as yet , I have done nothing .
Were I to vanish from the earth tomorrow , none would know so much of me as you : that a nameless youth came up at nightfall from the valley of the Saco , and opened his heart to you in the evening , and passed through the Notch by sunrise , and was seen no more .
Not a soul would ask , ' Who was he ?
Whither did the wanderer go ?
But I can not die till I have achieved my destiny .
Then , let Death come !
I shall have built my monument ! '
There was a continual flow of natural emotion , gushing forth amid abstracted reverie , which enabled the family to understand this young man 's sentiments , though so foreign from their own .
With quick sensibility of the ludicrous , he blushed at the ardor into which he had been betrayed .
' You laugh at me , ' said he , taking the eldest daughter 's hand , and laughing himself .
' You think my ambition as nonsensical as if I were to freeze myself to death on the top of Mount Washington , only that people might spy at me from the country round about .
And , truly , that would be a noble pedestal for a man 's statue ! '
' It is better to sit here by this fire , ' answered the girl , blushing , ' and be comfortable and contented , though nobody thinks about us . '
' I suppose , ' Said her father , after a fit of musing , ' there is something natural in what the young man says ; and if my mind had been turned that way , I might have felt just the same .
It is strange , wife , how his talk has set my head running on things that are pretty certain never to come to pass . '
' Perhaps they may , ' observed the wife .
' Is the man thinking what he will do when he is a widower ? '
' No , no ! '
cried he , repelling the idea with reproachful kindness .
' When I think of your death , Esther , I think of mine , too .
But I was wishing we had a good farm in Bartlett , or Bethlehem , or Littleton , or some other township round the White Mountains ; but not where they could tumble on our heads .
I should want to stand well with my neighbors and be called Squire , and sent to General Court for a term or two ; for a plain , honest man may do as much good there as a lawyer .
And when I should be grown quite an old man , and you an old woman , so as not to be long apart , I might die happy enough in my bed , and leave you all crying around me .
A slate gravestone would suit me as well as a marble one - with just my name and age , and a verse of a hymn , and something to let people know that I lived an honest man and died a Christian . '
' There now ! '
exclaimed the stranger ; ' it is our nature to desire a monument , be it slate or marble , or a pillar of granite , or a glorious memory in the universal heart of man . '
' We 're in a strange way , tonight , ' said the wife , with tears in her eyes .
' They say it 's a sign of something , when folks ' minds go a wandering so .
Hark to the children ! '
They listened accordingly .
The younger children had been put to bed in another room , but with an open door between , so that they could be heard talking busily among themselves .
One and all seemed to have caught the infection from the fireside circle , and were outvying each other in wild wishes , and childish projects of what they would do when they came to be men and women .
At length a little boy , instead of addressing his brothers and sisters , called out to his mother .
' I 'll tell you what I wish , mother , ' cried he .
' I want you and father and grandma'm , and all of us , and the stranger too , to start right away , and go and take a drink out of the basin of the Flume ! '
Nobody could help laughing at the child 's notion of leaving a warm bed , and dragging them from a cheerful fire , to visit the basin of the Flume - a brook , which tumbles over the precipice , deep within the Notch .
The boy had hardly spoken when a wagon rattled along the road , and stopped a moment before the door .
It appeared to contain two or three men , who were cheering their hearts with the rough chorus of a song , which resounded , in broken notes , between the cliffs , while the singers hesitated whether to continue their journey or put up here for the night .
' Father , ' said the girl , ' they are calling you by name . '
But the good man doubted whether they had really called him , and was unwilling to show himself too solicitous of gain by inviting people to patronize his house .
He therefore did not hurry to the door ; and the lash being soon applied , the travellers plunged into the Notch , still singing and laughing , though their music and mirth came back drearily from the heart of the mountain .
' There , mother ! '
cried the boy , again .
' They 'd have given us a ride to the Flume . '
Again they laughed at the child 's pertinacious fancy for a night ramble .
But it happened that a light cloud passed over the daughter 's spirit ; she looked gravely into the fire , and drew a breath that was almost a sigh .
It forced its way , in spite of a little struggle to repress it .
Then starting and blushing , she looked quickly round the circle , as if they had caught a glimpse into her bosom .
The stranger asked what she had been thinking of .
' Nothing , ' answered she , with a downcast smile .
' Only I felt lonesome just then . '
' Oh , I have always had a gift of feeling what is in other people 's hearts , ' said he , half seriously .
' Shall I tell the secrets of yours ?
For I know what to think when a young girl shivers by a warm hearth , and complains of lonesomeness at her mother 's side .
Shall I put these feelings into words ? '
' They would not be a girl 's feelings any longer if they could be put into words , ' replied the mountain nymph , laughing , but avoiding his eye .
All this was said apart .
Perhaps a germ of love was springing in their hearts , so pure that it might blossom in Paradise , since it could not be matured on earth ; for women worship such gentle dignity as his ; and the proud , contemplative , yet kindly soul is oftenest captivated by simplicity like hers .
But while they spoke softly , and he was watching the happy sadness , the lightsome shadows , the shy yearnings of a maiden 's nature , the wind through the Notch took a deeper and drearier sound .
It seemed , as the fanciful stranger said , like the choral strain of the spirits of the blast , who in old Indian times had their dwelling among these mountains , and made their heights and recesses a sacred region .
There was a wail along the road , as if a funeral were passing .
To chase away the gloom , the family threw pine branches on their fire , till the dry leaves crackled and the flame arose , discovering once again a scene of peace and humble happiness .
The light hovered about them fondly , and caressed them all .
There were the little faces of the children , peeping from their bed apart , and here the father 's frame of strength , the mother 's subdued and careful mien , the high - browed youth , the budding girl , and the good old grandam , still knitting in the warmest place .
The aged woman looked up from her task , and , with fingers ever busy , was the next to speak .
' Old folks have their notions , ' said she , ' as well as young ones .
You 've been wishing and planning ; and letting your heads run on one thing and another , till you 've set my mind a wandering too .
Now what should an old woman wish for , when she can go but a step or two before she comes to her grave ?
Children , it will haunt me night and day till I tell you . '
' What is it , mother ? '
cried the husband and wife at once .
Then the old woman , with an air of mystery which drew the circle closer round the fire , informed them that she had provided her grave - clothes some years before - a nice linen shroud , a cap with a muslin ruff , and everything of a finer sort than she had worn since her wedding day .
But this evening an old superstition had strangely recurred to her .
It used to be said , in her younger days , that if anything were amiss with a corpse , if only the ruff were not smooth , or the cap did not set right , the corpse in the coffin and beneath the clods would strive to put up its cold hands and arrange it .
The bare thought made her nervous .
' Do n't talk so , grandmother ! '
said the girl , shuddering .
' Now ' - continued the old woman , with singular earnestness , yet smiling strangely at her own folly - ' I want one of you , my children - when your mother is dressed and in the coffin - I want one of you to hold a looking - glass over my face .
Who knows but I may take a glimpse at myself , and see whether all 's right ? '
' Old and young , we dream of graves and monuments , ' murmured the stranger youth .
' I wonder how mariners feel when the ship is sinking , and they , unknown and undistinguished , are to be buried together in the ocean - that wide and nameless sepulchre ? '
For a moment , the old woman 's ghastly conception so engrossed the minds of her hearers that a sound abroad in the night , rising like the roar of a blast , had grown broad , deep , and terrible , before the fated group were conscious of it .
The house and all within it trembled ; the foundations of the earth seemed to be shaken , as if this awful sound were the peal of the last trump .
Young and old exchanged one wild glance , and remained an instant , pale , affrighted , without utterance , or power to move .
Then the same shriek burst simultaneously from all their lips .
' The Slide !
The Slide ! '
The simplest words must intimate , but not portray , the unutterable horror of the catastrophe .
The victims rushed from their cottage , and sought refuge in what they deemed a safer spot - where , in contemplation of such an emergency , a sort of barrier had been reared .
Alas !
they had quitted their security , and fled right into the pathway of destruction .
Down came the whole side of the mountain , in a cataract of ruin .
Just before it reached the house , the stream broke into two branches - shivered not a window there , but overwhelmed the whole vicinity , blocked up the road , and annihilated everything in its dreadful course .
Long ere the thunder of the great Slide had ceased to roar among the mountains , the mortal agony had been endured , and the victims were at peace .
Their bodies were never found .
The next morning , the light smoke was seen stealing from the cottage chimney up the mountain side .
Within , the fire was yet smouldering on the hearth , and the chairs in a circle round it , as if the inhabitants had but gone forth to view the devastation of the Slide , and would shortly return , to thank Heaven for their miraculous escape .
All had left separate tokens , by which those who had known the family were made to shed a tear for each .
Who has not heard their name ?
( The story has been told far and wide , and Will forever be a legend of these mountains . )
Poets have sung their fate .
There were circumstances which led some to suppose that a stranger had been received into the cottage on this awful night , and had shared the catastrophe of all its inmates .
Others denied that there were sufficient grounds for such a conjecture .
Woe for the high - souled youth , with his dream of Earthly Immortality !
His name and person utterly unknown ; his history , his way of life , his plans , a mystery never to be solved , his death and his existence equally a doubt !
Whose was the agony of that death moment ?
THE GREAT CARBUNCLE A MYSTERY OF THE WHITE MOUNTAINS ( The Indian tradition , on which this somewhat extravagant tale is founded , is both too wild and too beautiful to be adequately wrought up in prose .
Sullivan , in his History of Maine , written since the Revolution , remarks , that even then the existence of the Great Carbuncle was not entirely discredited . )
AT nightfall , once in the olden time , on the rugged side of one of the Crystal Hills , a party of adventurers were refreshing themselves , after a toilsome and fruitless quest for the Great Carbuncle .
They had come thither , not as friends nor partners in the enterprise , but each , save one youthful pair , impelled by his own selfish and solitary longing for this wondrous gem .
Their feeling of brotherhood , however , was strong enough to induce them to contribute a mutual aid in building a rude hut of branches , and kindling a great fire of shattered pines , that had drifted down the headlong current of the Amonoosuck , on the lower bank of which they were to pass the night .
There was but one of their number , perhaps , who had become so estranged from natural sympathies , by the absorbing spell of the pursuit , as to acknowledge no satisfaction at the sight of human faces , in the remote and solitary region whither they had ascended .
A vast extent of wilderness lay between them and the nearest settlement , while scant a mile above their heads was that black verge where the hills throw off their shaggy mantle of forest trees , and either robe themselves in clouds or tower naked into the sky .
The roar of the Amonoosuck would have been too awful for endurance if only a solitary man had listened , while the mountain stream talked with the wind .
The adventurers , therefore , exchanged hospitable greetings , and welcomed one another to the hut , where each man was the host , and all were the guests of the whole company .
They spread their individual supplies of food on the flat surface of a rock , and partook of a general repast ; at the close of which , a sentiment of good fellowship was perceptible among the party , though repressed by the idea , that the renewed search for the Great Carbuncle must make them strangers again in the morning .
Seven men and one young woman , they warmed themselves together at the fire , which extended its bright wall along the whole front of their wigwam .
As they observed the various and contrasted figures that made up the assemblage , each man looking like a caricature of himself , in the unsteady light that flickered over him , they came mutually to the conclusion , that an odder society had never met , in city or wilderness , on mountain or plain .
The eldest of the group , a tall , lean , weather - beaten man , some sixty years of age , was clad in the skins of wild animals , whose fashion of dress he did well to imitate , since the deer , the wolf , and the bear , had long been his most intimate companions .
He was one of those ill - fated mortals , such as the Indians told of , whom , in their early youth , the Great Carbuncle smote with a peculiar madness , and became the passionate dream of their existence .
All who visited that region knew him as the Seeker and by no other name .
As none could remember when he first took up the search , there went a fable in the valley of the Saco , that for his inordinate lust after the Great Carbuncle , he had been condemned to wander among the mountains till the end of time , still with the same feverish hopes at sunrise - the same despair at eve .
Near this miserable Seeker sat a little elderly personage , wearing a high - crowned hat , shaped somewhat like a crucible .
He was from beyond the sea , a Doctor Cacaphodel , who had wilted and dried himself into a mummy by continually stooping over charcoal furnaces , and inhaling unwholesome fumes during his researches in chemistry and alchemy .
It was told of him , whether truly or not , that , at the commencement of his studies , he had drained his body of all its richest blood , and wasted it , with other inestimable ingredients , in an unsuccessful experiment - and had never been a well man since .
Another of the adventurers was Master bod Pigsnort , a weighty merchant and selector Boston , and an elder of the famous Mr. Norton 's church .
His enemies had a ridiculous story that Master Pigsnort was accustomed to spend a whole hour after prayer time , every morning and evening , in wallowing naked among an immense quantity of pine - tree shillings , which were the earliest silver coinage of Massachusetts .
The fourth whom we shall notice had no name that his companions knew of , and was chiefly distinguished by a sneer that always contorted his thin visage , and by a prodigious pair of spectacles , which were supposed to deform and discolor the whole face of nature , to this gentleman 's perception .
The fifth adventurer likewise lacked a name , which was the greater pity , as he appeared to be a poet .
He was a bright - eyed man , but woefully pined away , which was no more than natural , if , as some people affirmed , his ordinary diet was fog , morning mist , and a slice of the densest cloud within his reach , sauced with moonshine , whenever he could get it .
Certain it is , that the poetry which flowed from him had a smack of all these dainties .
The sixth of the party was a young man of haughty mien , and sat somewhat apart from the rest , wearing his plumed hat loftily among his elders , while the fire glittered on the rich embroidery of his dress and gleamed intensely on the jewelled pommel of his sword .
This was the Lord de Vere , who , when at home , was said to spend much of his time in the burial vault of his dead progenitors , rummaging their mouldy coffins in search of all the earthly pride and vainglory that was hidden among bones and dust ; so that , besides his own share , he had the collected haughtiness of his whole line of ancestry .
Lastly , there was a handsome youth in rustic garb , and by his side a blooming little person , in whom a delicate shade of maiden reserve was just melting into the rich glow of a young wife 's affection .
Her name was Hannah , and her husband 's Matthew ; two homely names , yet well enough adapted to the simple pair , who seemed strangely out of place among the whimsical fraternity whose wits had been set agog by the Great Carbuncle .
Beneath the shelter of one hut , in the bright blaze of the same fire , sat this varied group of adventurers , all so intent upon a single object , that , of whatever else they began to speak , their closing words were sure to be illuminated with the Great Carbuncle .
Several related the circumstances that brought them thither .
One had listened to a traveller 's tale of this marvellous stone in his own distant country , and had immediately been seized with such a thirst for beholding it as could only , be quenched in its intensest lustre .
Another , so long ago as when the famous Captain Smith visited these coasts , had seen it blazing far at sea , and had felt no rest in all the intervening years till now that he took up the search .
A third , being camped on a hunting expedition full forty miles south of the White Mountains , awoke at midnight , and beheld the Great Carbuncle gleaming like a meteor , so that the shadows of the trees fell backward from it .
They spoke of the innumerable attempts which had been made to reach the spot , and of the singular fatality which had hitherto withheld success from all adventurers , though it might seem so easy to follow to its source a light that overpowered the moon , and almost matched the sun .
It was observable that each smiled scornfully at the madness of every other in anticipating better fortune than the past , yet nourished a scarcely hidden conviction that he would himself be the favored one .
As if to allay their too sanguine hopes , they recurred to the Indian traditions that a spirit kept watch about the gem , and bewildered those who sought it either by removing it from peak to peak of the higher hills , or by calling up a mist from the enchanted lake over which it hung .
But these tales were deemed unworthy of credit , all professing to believe that the search had been baffled by want of sagacity or perseverance in the adventurers , or such other causes as might naturally obstruct the passage to any given point among the intricacies of forest , valley , and mountain .
In a pause of the conversation the wearer of the prodigious spectacles looked round upon the party , making each individual , in turn , the object of the sneer which invariably dwelt upon his countenance .
' So , fellow - pilgrims , ' said he , ' here we are , seven wise men , and one fair damsel - who , doubtless , is as wise as any graybeard of the company : here we are , I say , all bound on the same goodly enterprise .
Methinks , now , it were not amiss that each of us declare what he proposes to do with the Great Carbuncle , provided he have the good hap to clutch it .
What says our friend in the bear skin ?
How mean you , good sir , to enjoy the prize which you have been seeking , the Lord knows how long , among the Crystal Hills ? '
' How enjoy it ! '
exclaimed the aged Seeker , bitterly .
' I hope for no enjoyment from it ; that folly has passed long ago !
I keep up the search for this accursed stone because the vain ambition of my youth has become a fate upon me in old age .
The pursuit alone is my strength - the energy of my soul - the warmth of my blood - and the pith and marrow of my bones !
Were I to turn my back upon it I should fall down dead on the hither side of the Notch , which is the gateway of this mountain region .
Yet not to have my wasted lifetime back again would I give up my hopes of the Great Carbuncle !
Having found it , I shall bear it to a certain cavern that I wot of , and there , grasping it in my arms , lie down and die , and keep it buried with me forever . '
' O wretch , regardless of the interests of science ! '
cried Doctor Cacaphodel , with philosophic indignation .
' Thou art not worthy to behold , even from afar off , the lustre of this most precious gem that ever was concocted in the laboratory of Nature .
Mine is the sole purpose for which a wise man may desire the possession of the Great Carbuncle .
' Immediately on obtaining it - for I have a presentiment , good people , that the prize is reserved to crown my scientific reputation - I shall return to Europe , and employ my remaining years in reducing it to its first elements .
A portion of the stone will I grind to impalpable powder ; other parts shall be dissolved in acids , or whatever solvents will act upon so admirable a composition ; and the remainder I design to melt in the crucible , or set on fire with the blow - pipe .
By these various methods I shall gain an accurate analysis , and finally bestow the result of my labors upon the world in a folio volume . '
' Excellent ! '
quoth the man with the spectacles .
' Nor need you hesitate , learned sir , on account of the necessary destruction of the gem ; since the perusal of your folio may teach every mother 's son of us to concoct a Great Carbuncle of his own . '
' But , verily , ' said Master Ichabod Pigsnort , ' for mine own part I object to the making of these counterfeits , as being calculated to reduce the marketable value of the true gem .
I tell ye frankly , sirs , I have an interest in keeping up the price .
Here have I quitted my regular traffic , leaving my warehouse in the care of my clerks , and putting my credit to great hazard , and , furthermore , have put myself in peril of death or captivity by the accursed heathen savages - and all this without daring to ask the prayers of the congregation , because the quest for the Great Carbuncle is deemed little better than a traffic with the Evil One .
Now think ye that I would have done this grievous wrong to my soul , body , reputation , and estate , without a reasonable chance of profit ? '
' Not I , pious Master Pigsnort , ' said the man with the spectacles .
' I never laid such a great folly to thy charge . '
' Truly , I hope not , ' said the merchant .
' Now , as touching this Great Carbuncle , I am free to own that I have never had a glimpse of it ; but be it only the hundredth part so bright as people tell , it will surely outvalue the Great Mogul 's best diamond , which he holds at an incalculable sum .
Wherefore , I am minded to put the Great Carbuncle on shipboard , and voyage with it to England , France , Spain , Italy , or into Heathendom , if Providence should send me thither , and , in a word , dispose of the gem to the best bidder among the potentates of the earth , that he may place it among his crown jewels .
If any of ye have a wiser plan , let him expound it . '
' That have I , thou sordid man ! '
exclaimed the poet .
' Dost thou desire nothing brighter than gold that thou wouldst transmute all this ethereal lustre into such dross as thou wallowest in already ?
For myself , hiding the jewel under my cloak , I shall hie me back to my attic chamber , in one of the darksome alleys of London .
There , night and day , will I gaze upon it ; my soul shall drink its radiance ; it shall be diffused throughout my intellectual powers , and gleam brightly in every line of poesy that I indite .
Thus , long ages after I am gone , the splendor of the Great Carbuncle will blaze around my name ? '
' Well said , Master Poet ! '
cried he of the spectacles .
' Hide it under thy cloak , sayest thou ?
Why , it will gleam through the holes , and make thee look like a jack - o ' - lantern ! '
' To think ! '
ejaculated the Lord de Vere , rather to himself than his companions , the best of whom he held utterly unworthy of his intercourse - ' to think that a fellow in a tattered cloak should talk of conveying the Great Carbuncle to a garret in Grub Street !
Have not I resolved within myself that the whole earth contains no fitter ornament for the great hall of my ancestral castle ?
There shall it flame for ages , making a noonday of midnight , glittering on the suits of armor , the banners , and escutcheons , that hang around the wall , and keeping bright the memory of heroes .
Wherefore have all other adventurers sought the prize in vain but that I might win it , and make it a symbol of the glories of our lofty line ?
And never , on the diadem of the White Mountains , did the Great Carbuncle hold a place half so honored as is reserved for it in the hall of the De Veres ! '
' It is a noble thought , ' said the Cynic , with an obsequious sneer .
' Yet , might I presume to say so , the gem would make a rare sepulchral lamp , and would display the glories of your lordship 's progenitors more truly in the ancestral vault than in the castle hall . '
' Nay , forsooth , ' observed Matthew , the young rustic , who sat hand in hand with his bride , ' the gentleman has bethought himself of a profitable use for this bright stone .
Hannah here and I are seeking it for a like purpose . '
' How , fellow ! '
exclaimed his lordship , in surprise .
' What castle hall hast thou to hang it in ? '
' No castle , ' replied Matthew , ' but as neat a cottage as any within sight of the Crystal Hills .
Ye must know , friends , that Hannah and I , being wedded the last week , have taken up the search of the Great Carbuncle , because we shall need its light in the long winter evenings ; and it will be such a pretty thing to show the neighbors when they visit us .
It will shine through the house so that we may pick up a pin in any corner , and will set all the windows aglowing as if there were a great fire of pine knots in the chimney .
And then how pleasant , when we awake in the night , to be able to see one another 's faces ! '
There was a general smile among the adventurers at the simplicity of the young couple 's project in regard to this wondrous and invaluable stone , with which the greatest monarch on earth might have been proud to adorn his palace .
Especially the man with spectacles , who had sneered at all the company in turn , now twisted his visage into such an expression of ill - natured mirth , that Matthew asked him , rather peevishly , what he himself meant to do with the Great Carbuncle .
' The Great Carbuncle ! '
answered the Cynic , with ineffable scorn .
' Why , you blockhead , there is no such thing in rerum natura .
I have come three thousand miles , and am resolved to set my foot on every peak of these mountains , and poke my head into every chasm , for the sole purpose of demonstrating to the satisfaction of any man one whit less an ass than thyself that the Great Carbuncle is all a humbug ! '
Vain and foolish were the motives that had brought most of the adventurers to the Crystal Hills ; but none so vain , so foolish , and so impious too , as that of the scoffer with the prodigious spectacles .
He was one of those wretched and evil men whose yearnings are downward to the darkness , instead of heavenward , and who , could they but distinguish the lights which God hath kindled for us , would count the midnight gloom their chiefest glory .
As the Cynic spoke , several of the party were startled by a gleam of red splendor , that showed the huge shapes of the surrounding mountains and the rock - bed of the turbulent river with an illumination unlike that of their fire on the trunks and black boughs of the forest trees .
They listened for the roll of thunder , but heard nothing , and were glad that the tempest came not near them .
The stars , those dial - points of heaven , now warned the adventurers to close their eyes on the blazing logs , and open them , in dreams , to the glow of the Great Carbuncle .
The young married couple had taken their lodgings in the farthest corner of the wigwam , and were separated from the rest of the party by a curtain of curiously - woven twigs , such as might have hung , in deep festoons , around the bridal - bower of Eve .
The modest little wife had wrought this piece of tapestry while the other guests were talking .
She and her husband fell asleep with hands tenderly clasped , and awoke from visions of unearthly radiance to meet the more blessed light of one another 's eyes .
They awoke at the same instant , and with one happy smile beaming over their two faces , which grew brighter with their consciousness of the reality of life and love .
But no sooner did she recollect where they were , than the bride peeped through the interstices of the leafy curtain , and saw that the outer room of the hut was deserted .
' Up , dear Matthew ! '
cried she , in haste .
' The strange folk are all gone !
Up , this very minute , or we shall loose the Great Carbuncle ! '
In truth , so little did these poor young people deserve the mighty prize which had lured them thither , that they had slept peacefully all night , and till the summits of the hills were glittering with sunshine ; while the other adventurers had tossed their limbs in feverish wakefulness , or dreamed of climbing precipices , and set off to realize their dreams with the earliest peep of dawn .
But Matthew and Hannah , after their calm rest , were as light as two young deer , and merely stopped to say their prayers and wash themselves in a cold pool of the Amonoosuck , and then to taste a morsel of food , ere they turned their faces to the mountainside .
It was a sweet emblem of conjugal affection , as they toiled up the difficult ascent , gathering strength from the mutual aid which they afforded .
After several little accidents , such as a torn robe , a lost shoe , and the entanglement of Hannah 's hair in a bough , they reached the upper verge of the forest , and were now to pursue a more adventurous course .
The innumerable trunks and heavy foliage of the trees had hitherto shut in their thoughts , which now shrank affrighted from the region of wind and cloud and naked rocks and desolate sunshine , that rose immeasurably above them .
They gazed back at the obscure wilderness which they had traversed , and longed to be buried again in its depths rather than trust themselves to so vast and visible a solitude .
' Shall we go on ? '
said Matthew , throwing his arm round Hannah 's waist , both to protect her and to comfort his heart by drawing her close to it .
But the little bride , simple as she was , had a woman 's love of jewels , and could not forego the hope of possessing the very brightest in the world , in spite of the perils with which it must be won .
' Let us climb a little higher , ' whispered she , yet tremulously , as she turned her face upward to the lonely sky .
' Come , then , ' said Matthew , mustering his manly courage and drawing her along with him , for she became timid again the moment that he grew bold .
And upward , accordingly , went the pilgrims of the Great Carbuncle , now treading upon the tops and thickly - interwoven branches of dwarf pines , which , by the growth of centuries , though mossy with age , had barely reached three feet in altitude .
Next , they came to masses and fragments of naked rock heaped confusedly together , like a cairn reared by giants in memory of a giant chief .
In this bleak realm of upper air nothing breathed , nothing grew ; there was no life but what was concentrated in their two hearts ; they had climbed so high that Nature herself seemed no longer to keep them company .
She lingered beneath them , within the verge of the forest trees , and sent a farewell glance after her children as they strayed where her own green footprints had never been .
But soon they were to be hidden from her eye .
Densely and dark the mists began to gather below , casting black spots of shadow on the vast landscape , and sailing heavily to one centre , as if the loftiest mountain peak had summoned a council of its kindred clouds .
Finally , the vapors welded themselves , as it were , into a mass , presenting the appearance of a pavement over which the wanderers might have trodden , but where they would vainly have sought an avenue to the blessed earth which they had lost .
And the lovers yearned to behold that green earth again , more intensely , alas !
than , beneath a clouded sky , they had ever desired a glimpse of heaven .
They even felt it a relief to their desolation when the mists , creeping gradually up the mountain , concealed its lonely peak , and thus annihilated , at least for them , the whole region of visible space .
But they drew closely together , with a fond and melancholy gaze , dreading lest the universal cloud should snatch them from each other 's sight .
Still , perhaps , they would have been resolute to climb as far and as high , between earth and heaven , as they could find foothold , if Hannah 's strength had not begun to fail , and with that , her courage also .
Her breath grew short .
She refused to burden her husband with her weight , but often tottered against his side , and recovered herself each time by a feebler effort .
At last , she sank down on one of the rocky steps of the acclivity .
' We are lost , dear Matthew , ' said she , mournfully .
' We shall never find our way to the earth again .
And oh how happy we might have been in our cottage ! '
' Dear heart !
we will yet be happy there , ' answered Matthew .
' Look !
In this direction , the sunshine penetrates the dismal mist .
By its aid , I can direct our course to the passage of the Notch .
Let us go back , love , and dream no more of the Great Carbuncle ! '
' The sun can not be yonder , ' said Hannah , with despondence .
' By this time it must be noon .
If there could ever be any sunshine here , it would come from above our heads . '
' But look ! '
repeated Matthew , in a somewhat altered tone .
' It is brightening every moment .
If not sunshine , what can it be ? '
Nor could the young bride any longer deny that a radiance was breaking through the mist , and changing its dim hue to a dusky red , which continually grew more vivid , as if brilliant particles were interfused with the gloom .
Now , also , the cloud began to roll away from the mountain , while , as it heavily withdrew , one object after another started out of its impenetrable obscurity into sight , with precisely the effect of a new creation , before the indistinctness of the old chaos had been completely swallowed up .
As the process went on , they saw the gleaming of water close at their feet , and found themselves on the very border of a mountain lake , deep , bright , clear , and calmly beautiful , spreading from brim to brim of a basin that had been scooped out of the solid rock .
A ray of glory flashed across its surface .
The pilgrims looked whence it should proceed , but closed their eyes with a thrill of awful admiration , to exclude the fervid splendor that glowed from the brow of a cliff impending over the enchanted lake .
For the simple pair had reached that lake of mystery , and found the long - sought shrine of the Great Carbuncle !
They threw their arms around each other , and trembled at their own success ; for , as the legends of this wondrous gem rushed thick upon their memory , they felt themselves marked out by fate and the consciousness was fearful .
Often , from childhood upward , they had seen it shining like a distant star .
And now that star was throwing its intensest lustre on their hearts .
They seemed changed to one another 's eyes , in the red brilliancy that flamed upon their cheeks , while it lent the same fire to the lake , the rocks , and sky , and to the mists which had rolled back before its power .
But , with their next glance , they beheld an object that drew their attention even from the mighty stone .
At the base of the cliff , directly beneath the Great Carbuncle , appeared the figure of a man , with his arms extended in the act of climbing , and his face turned upward , as if to drink the full gush of splendor .
But he stirred not , no more than if changed to marble .
' It is the Seeker , ' whispered Hannah , convulsively grasping her husband 's arm .
' Matthew , he is dead . '
' The joy of success has killed him , ' replied Matthew , trembling violently .
' Or , perhaps , the very light of the Great Carbuncle was death ! '
' The Great Carbuncle , ' cried a peevish voice behind them .
' The Great Humbug !
If you have found it , prithee point it out to me . '
They turned their heads , and there was the Cynic , with his prodigious spectacles set carefully on his nose , staring now at the lake , now at the rocks , now at the distant masses of vapor , now right at the Great Carbuncle itself , yet seemingly as unconscious of its light as if all the scattered clouds were condensed about his person .
Though its radiance actually threw the shadow of the unbeliever at his own feet , as he turned his back upon the glorious jewel , he would not be convinced that there was the least glimmer there .
' Where is your Great Humbug ? '
he repeated .
' I challenge you to make me see it ! '
' There , ' said Matthew , incensed at such perverse blindness , and turning the Cynic round towards the illuminated cliff .
' Take off those abominable spectacles , and you can not help seeing it ! '
Now these colored spectacles probably darkened the Cynic 's sight , in at least as great a degree as the smoked glasses through which people gaze at an eclipse .
With resolute bravado , however , he snatched them from his nose , and fixed a bold stare full upon the ruddy blaze of the Great Carbuncle .
But scarcely had he encountered it , when , with a deep , shuddering groan , he dropped his head , and pressed both hands across his miserable eyes .
Thenceforth there was , in very truth , no light of the Great Carbuncle , nor any other light on earth , nor light of heaven itself , for the poor Cynic .
So long accustomed to View all objects through a medium that deprived them of every glimpse of brightness , a single flash of so glorious a phenomenon , striking upon his naked vision , had blinded him forever .
' Matthew , ' said Hannah , clinging to him , ' let us go hence ! '
Matthew saw that she was faint , and kneeling down , supported her in his arms , while he threw some of the thrillingly cold water of the enchanted lake upon her face and bosom .
It revived her , but could not renovate her courage .
' Yes , dearest ! '
cried Matthew , pressing her tremulous form to his breast - ' we will go hence , and return to our humble cottage .
The blessed sunshine and the quiet moonlight shall come through our window .
We will kindle the cheerful glow of our hearth , at eventide , and be happy in its light .
But never again will we desire more light than all the world may share with us . '
' No , ' said his bride , ' for how could we live by day , or sleep by night , in this awful blaze of the Great Carbuncle ! '
Out of the hollow of their hands , they drank each a draught from the lake , which presented them its waters uncontaminated by an earthly lip .
Then , lending their guidance to the blinded Cynic , who uttered not a word , and even stifled his groans in his own most wretched heart , they began to descend the mountain .
Yet , as they left the shore , till then untrodden , of the spirit 's lake , they threw a farewell glance towards the cliff , and beheld the vapors gathering in dense volumes , through which the gem burned duskily .
As touching the other pilgrims of the Great Carbuncle , the legend goes on to tell , that the worshipful Master Ichabod Pigsnort soon gave up the quest as a desperate speculation , and wisely resolved to betake himself again to his warehouse , near the town dock , in Boston .
But , as he passed through the Notch of the mountains , a war party of Indians captured our unlucky merchant , and carried him to Montreal , there holding him in bondage , till , by the payment of a heavy ransom , he had woefully subtracted from his hoard of pine - tree shillings .
By his long absence , moreover , his affairs had become so disordered that , for the rest of his life , instead of wallowing in silver , he had seldom a sixpence worth of copper .
Doctor Cacaphodel , the alchemist , returned to his laboratory with a prodigious fragment of granite , which he ground to powder , dissolved in acids , melted in the crucible , and burned with the blow - pipe , and published the result of his experiments in one of the heaviest folios of the day .
And , for all these purposes , the gem itself could not have answered better than the granite .
The poet , by a somewhat similar mistake , made prize of a great piece of ice , which he found in a sunless chasm of the mountains , and swore that it corresponded , in all points , with his idea of the Great Carbuncle .
The critics say , that , if his poetry lacked the splendor of the gem , it retained all the coldness of the ice .
The Lord de Vere went back to his ancestral hall , where he contented himself with a wax - lighted chandelier , and filled , in due course of time , another coffin in the ancestral vault .
As the funeral torches gleamed within that dark receptacle , there was no need of the Great Carbuncle to show the vanity of earthly pomp .
The Cynic , having cast aside his spectacles , wandered about the world , a miserable object , and was punished with an agonizing desire of light , for the wilful blindness of his former life .
The whole night long , he would lift his splendor - blasted orbs to the moon and stars ; he turned his face eastward , at sunrise , as duly as a Persian idolater ; he made a pilgrimage to Rome , to witness the magnificent illumination of St. Peter 's Church ; and finally perished in the great fire of London , into the midst of which he had thrust himself , with the desperate idea of catching one feeble ray from the blaze that was kindling earth and heaven .
Matthew and his bride spent many peaceful years , and were fond of telling the legend of the Great Carbuncle .
The tale , however , towards the close of their lengthened lives , did not meet with the full credence that had been accorded to it by those who remembered the ancient lustre of the gem .
For it is affirmed that , from the hour when two mortals had shown themselves so simply wise as to reject a jewel which would have dimmed all earthly things , its splendor waned .
When other pilgrims reached the cliff , they found only an opaque stone , with particles of mica glittering on its surface .
There is also a tradition that , as the youthful pair departed , the gem was loosened from the forehead of the cliff , and fell into the enchanted lake , and that , at noontide , the Seeker 's form may still be seen to bend over its quenchless gleam .
Some few believe that this inestimable stone is blazing as of old , and say that they have caught its radiance , like a flash of summer lightning , far down the valley of the Saco .
And be it owned that , many a mile from the Crystal Hills , I saw a wondrous light around their summits , and was lured , by the faith of poesy , to be the latest pilgrim of the GREAT CARBUNCLE .
SKETCHES FROM MEMORY THE NOTCH OF THE WHITE MOUNTAINS IT was now the middle of September .
We had come since sunrise from Bartlett , passing up through the valley of the Saco , which extends between mountainous walls , sometimes with a steep ascent , but often as level as a church aisle .
All that day and two preceding ones we had been loitering towards the heart of the White Mountains - those old crystal hills , whose mysterious brilliancy had gleamed upon our distant wanderings before we thought of visiting them .
Height after height had risen and towered one above another till the clouds began to hang below the peaks .
Down their slopes were the red pathways of the slides , those avalanches of earth , stones and trees , which descend into the hollows , leaving vestiges of their track hardly to be effaced by the vegetation of ages .
We had mountains behind us and mountains on each side , and a group of mightier ones ahead .
Still our road went up along the Saco , right towards the centre of that group , as if to climb above the clouds in its passage to the farther region .
In old times the settlers used to be astounded by the inroads of the northern Indians coming down upon them from this mountain rampart through some defile known only to themselves .
It is , indeed , a wondrous path .
A demon , it might be fancied , or one of the Titans , was travelling up the valley , elbowing the heights carelessly aside as he passed , till at length a great mountain took its stand directly across his intended road .
He tarries not for such an obstacle , but , rending it asunder a thousand feet from peak to base , discloses its treasures of hidden minerals , its sunless waters , all the secrets of the mountain 's inmost heart , with a mighty fracture of rugged precipices on each side .
This is the Notch of the White Hills .
Shame on me that I have attempted to describe it by so mean an image - feeling , as I do , that it is one of those symbolic scenes which lead the mind to the sentiment , though not to the conception , of Omnipotence .
We had now reached a narrow passage , which showed almost the appearance of having been cut by human strength and artifice in the solid rock .
There was a wall of granite on each side , high and precipitous , especially on our right , and so smooth that a few evergreens could hardly find foothold enough to grow there .
This is the entrance , or , in the direction we were going , the extremity , of the romantic defile of the Notch .
Before emerging from it , the rattling of wheels approached behind us , and a stage - coach rumbled out of the mountain , with seats on top and trunks behind , and a smart driver , in a drab greatcoat , touching the wheel horses with the whipstock and reining in the leaders .
To my mind there was a sort of poetry in such an incident , hardly inferior to what would have accompanied the painted array of an Indian war party gliding forth from the same wild chasm .
All the passengers , except a very fat lady on the back seat , had alighted .
One was a mineralogist , a scientific , green - spectacled figure in black , bearing a heavy hammer , with which he did great damage to the precipices , and put the fragments in his pocket .
Another was a well - dressed young man , who carried an opera glass set in gold , and seemed to be making a quotation from some of Byron 's rhapsodies on mountain scenery .
There was also a trader , returning from Portland to the upper part of Vermont ; and a fair young girl , with a very faint bloom like one of those pale and delicate flowers which sometimes occur among alpine cliffs .
They disappeared , and we followed them , passing through a deep pine forest , which for some miles allowed us to see nothing but its own dismal shade .
Towards nightfall we reached a level amphitheatre , surrounded by a great rampart of hills , which shut out the sunshine long before it left the external world .
It was here that we obtained our first view , except at a distance , of the principal group of mountains .
They are majestic , and even awful , when contemplated in a proper mood , yet , by their breadth of base and the long ridges which support them , give the idea of immense bulk rather than of towering height .
Mount Washington , indeed , looked near to heaven : he was white with snow a mile downward , and had caught the only cloud that was sailing through the atmosphere to veil his head .
Let us forget the other names of American statesmen that have been stamped upon these hills , but still call the loftiest Washington .
Mountains are Earth 's undecaying monuments .
They must stand while she endures , and never should be consecrated to the mere great men of their own age and country , but to the mighty ones alone , whose glory is universal , and whom all time will render illustrious .
The air , not often sultry in this elevated region , nearly two thousand feet above the sea , was now sharp and cold , like that of a clear November evening in the lowlands .
By morning , probably , there would be a frost , if not a snowfall , on the grass and rye , and an icy surface over the standing water .
I was glad to perceive a prospect of comfortable quarters in a house which we were approaching , and of pleasant company in the guests who were assembled at the door .
OUR EVENING PARTY AMONG THE MOUNTAINS We stood in front of a good substantial farmhouse , of old date in that wild country .
A sign over the door denoted it to be the White Mountain Post Office - an establishment which distributes letters and newspapers to perhaps a score of persons , comprising the population of two or three townships among the hills .
The broad and weighty antlers of a deer , ' a stag of ten , ' were fastened at the corner of the house ; a fox 's bushy tail was nailed beneath them ; and a huge black paw lay on the ground , newly severed and still bleeding the trophy of a bear hunt .
Among several persons collected about the doorsteps , the most remarkable was a sturdy mountaineer , of six feet two and corresponding bulk , with a heavy set of features , such as might be moulded on his own blacksmith 's anvil , but yet indicative of mother wit and rough humor .
As we appeared , he uplifted a tin trumpet , four or five feet long , and blew a tremendous blast , either in honor of our arrival or to awaken an echo from the opposite hill .
Ethan Crawford 's guests were of such a motley description as to form quite a picturesque group , seldom seen together except at some place like this , at once the pleasure house of fashionable tourists and the homely inn of country travellers .
Among the company at the door were the mineralogist and the owner of the gold opera glass whom we had encountered in the Notch ; two Georgian gentlemen , who had chilled their southern blood that morning on the top of Mount Washington ; a physician and his wife from Conway ; a trader of Burlington , and an old squire of the Green Mountains ; and two young married couples , all the way from Massachusetts , on the matrimonial jaunt , Besides these strangers , the rugged county of Coos , in which we were , was represented by half a dozen wood - cutters , who had slain a bear in the forest and smitten off his paw .
I had joined the party , and had a moment 's leisure to examine them before the echo of Ethan 's blast returned from the hill .
Not one , but many echoes had caught up the harsh and tuneless sound , untwisted its complicated threads , and found a thousand aerial harmonies in one stern trumpet tone .
It was a distinct yet distant and dreamlike symphony of melodious instruments , as if an airy band had been hidden on the hillside and made faint music at the summons .
No subsequent trial produced so clear , delicate , and spiritual a concert as the first .
A field - piece was then discharged from the top of a neighboring hill , and gave birth to one long reverberation , which ran round the circle of mountains in an unbroken chain of sound and rolled away without a separate echo .
After these experiments , the cold atmosphere drove us all into the house , with the keenest appetites for supper .
It did one 's heart good to see the great fires that were kindled in the parlor and bar - room , especially the latter , where the fireplace was built of rough stone , and might have contained the trunk of an old tree for a backlog .
A man keeps a comfortable hearth when his own forest is at his very door .
In the parlor , when the evening was fairly set in , we held our hands before our eyes to shield them from the ruddy glow , and began a pleasant variety of conversation .
The mineralogist and the physician talked about the invigorating qualities of the mountain air , and its excellent effect on Ethan Crawford 's father , an old man of seventy - five , with the unbroken frame of middle life .
The two brides and the doctor 's wife held a whispered discussion , which , by their frequent titterings and a blush or two , seemed to have reference to the trials or enjoyments of the matrimonial state .
The bridegrooms sat together in a corner , rigidly silent , like Quakers whom the spirit moveth not , being still in the odd predicament of bashfulness towards their own young wives .
The Green Mountain squire chose me for his companion , and described the difficulties he had met with half a century ago in travelling from the Connecticut River through the Notch to Conway , now a single day 's journey , though it had cost him eighteen .
The Georgians held the album between them , and favored us with the few specimens of its contents which they considered ridiculous enough to be worth hearing .
One extract met with deserved applause .
It was a ' Sonnet to the Snow on Mount Washington , ' and had been contributed that very afternoon , bearing a signature of great distinction in magazines and annals .
The lines were elegant and full of fancy , but too remote from familiar sentiment , and cold as their subject , resembling those curious specimens of crystallized vapor which I observed next day on the mountain top .
The poet was understood to be the young gentleman of the gold opera glass , who heard our laudatory remarks with the composure of a veteran .
Such was our party , and such their ways of amusement .
But on a winter evening another set of guests assembled at the hearth where these summer travellers were now sitting .
I once had it in contemplation to spend a month hereabouts , in sleighing time , for the sake of studying the yeomen of New England , who then elbow each other through the Notch by hundreds , on their way to Portland .
There could be no better school for such a place than Ethan Crawford 's inn .
Let the student go thither in December , sit down with the teamsters at their meals , share their evening merriment , and repose with them at night when every bed has its three occupants , and parlor , barroom , and kitchen are strewn with slumberers around the fire .
Then let him rise before daylight , button his greatcoat , muffle up his ears , and stride with the departing caravan a mile or two , to see how sturdily they make head against the blast .
A treasure of characteristic traits will repay all inconveniences , even should a frozen nose be of the number .
The conversation of our party soon became more animated and sincere , and we recounted some traditions of the Indians , who believed that the father and mother of their race were saved from a deluge by ascending the peak of Mount Washington .
The children of that pair have been overwhelmed , and found no such refuge .
In the mythology of the savage , these mountains were afterwards considered sacred and inaccessible , full of unearthly wonders , illuminated at lofty heights by the blaze of precious stones , and inhabited by deities , who sometimes shrouded themselves in the snowstorm and came down on the lower world .
There are few legends more poetical than that of the ' Great Carbuncle ' of the White Mountains .
The belief was communicated to the English settlers , and is hardly yet extinct , that a gem , of such immense size as to be seen shining miles away , hangs from a rock over a clear , deep lake , high up among the hills .
They who had once beheld its splendor were inthralled with an unutterable yearning to possess it .
But a spirit guarded that inestimable jewel , and bewildered the adventurer with a dark mist from the enchanted lake .
Thus life was worn away in the vain search for an unearthly treasure , till at length the deluded one went up the mountain , still sanguine as in youth , but returned no more .
On this theme methinks I could frame a tale with a deep moral .
The hearts of the palefaces would not thrill to these superstitions of the red men , though we spoke of them in the centre of the haunted region .
The habits and sentiments of that departed people were too distinct from those of their successors to find much real sympathy .
It has often been a matter of regret to me that I was shut out from the most peculiar field of American fiction by an inability to see any romance , or poetry , or grandeur , or beauty in the Indian character , at least till such traits were pointed out by others .
I do abhor an Indian story .
Yet no writer can be more secure of a permanent place in our literature than the biographer of the Indian chiefs .
His subject , as referring to tribes which have mostly vanished from the earth , gives him a right to be placed on a classic shelf , apart from the merits which will sustain him there .
I made inquiries whether , in his researches about these parts , our mineralogist had found the three ' Silver Hills ' which an Indian sachem sold to an Englishman nearly two hundred years ago , and the treasure of which the posterity of the purchaser have been looking for ever since .
But the man of science had ransacked every hill along the Saco , and knew nothing of these prodigious piles of wealth .
By this time , as usual with men on the eve of great adventure , we had prolonged our session deep into the night , considering how early we were to set out on our six miles ' ride to the foot of Mount Washington .
There was now a general breaking up .
I scrutinized the faces of the two bridegrooms , and saw but little probability of their leaving the bosom of earthly bliss , in the first week of the honeymoon and at the frosty hour of three , to climb above the clouds ; nor when I felt how sharp the wind was as it rushed through a broken pane and eddied between the chinks of my unplastered chamber , did I anticipate much alacrity on my own part , though we were to seek for the ' Great Carbuncle . '
" Help me !
Help me !
Woyee !
The father of my children , please stop it !
Please stop it !
Am sorry .
I wo n't repeat it again " , cried Laisita rolling and growling in pain , " My husband you will never see me again I promise you , please have mercy on me for the sake of our children . "
This is not the first time Laisita received blows and kicks from her husband Mr. Mambo .
Our story is narrated from humble beginnings from a small town referred to as Luckysammer .
Mr. and Mrs. Mawele were blessed with six children four daughters ' two boys .
Life for them was easy compared to the economy of the country .
They lived in a three bedroom house that had electricity and water and in those days that was referred to as luxury .
Their children went to good private schools and they use to perform well especially their eldest daughter Laisita . She was hardworking and at only fourteen she used to help her mother take care of her other siblings , since her mother was a house wife .
Things became so tough for them when Mr. Mawele the solo bread winner of the family suffered an accident at the railway station when he tried to save a boy who was stuck at the rail roads while trying to cross the railway .
By then , He was employed at the station as one of the supervisors .
The train did not manage to stop on time and Mr. Mawele got entangled while trying to pull the boy .
Unfortunately his left side was severely injured and the boy unfortunately died on the spot due to the fatal accident .
Mr. Mawele was hospitalized for two months but afterwards he was discharged but could not go back to work because he was paralyzed on his left side .
Things became so tough that their livelihood changed , they moved from being rich to poor .
In the sense that having two meals a day was a luxury and not a necessity for them .
Mrs. Mawele tried to follow up at her husband 's work place to claim for compensation since he was injured in the line of duty but the bosses who were supposed to cater for their needs decided to bribe the people heading the case and the case was pushed aside .
The couple talked and they decide that the only solution was to move back to their rural place in Maasai Land since Mr. Mawele had initially inherited a family land there .
They moved there but before they could even settle down , things started heating up .
Mr. Mawele initially moved to the city to save her daughters from their customs but little did he know that fate will have it way and he would return to the same place he was running away from .
Trouble started brewing up for Lasita who was the eldest daughter of the family .
Elders would stream their home day and night wanting her hand in marriage but his father would deny over and over again .
One day the elders met in private and decided to come up with a plan to kill Mr. Mawele and his two younger sons , since they were the only standing block between them and the girls .
They hired Samburu warriors to do the dirty job for them telling them that the land that the man owned was to be divided amongst them .
One day while the Maweles were asleep , they were ambushed and Mr. Mawele and his two sons were stabbed to death and they died on the spot , the warriors also took with them the two cattle 's and four sheep 's that the family owned to make it look like a raid .
The burial was held and the community members led by the elders blamed the neighboring Itika community for carrying out the raid saying that they will retaliate the same way .
Before the dust could even settle Laisita who was just fourteen and her three sisters aged six , eight and eleven were taken by women of the community for them to be circumcised as there custom demanded .
Her immediate sister Laito and Ellena who were eleven and eight years respectively managed to escape while Laisita and Puru who was the youngest were caught .
Their mother cried for them to be released taming the custom as something of the past but her cries fell on deaf ears .
The women went ahead with the " cut " as it was known by then circumcision .
Unfortunately the young girl bleed to death due to improper means of circumcision and since the hospitals were so far they could not managed to take her for proper treatment .
This was another bomb shell for the mother .
Things were happening in their family as if someone had placed a curse on them .
Laisita was strong and she recovered quickly just after four days .
She then stared to search for her two sisters but all was in vain .
" Mother what should we do ? "
asked Laisita , " There is nothing we can do .
The elders and the community at large are against us , if we make a fuss by insisting to the elders for the search of yours sisters we shall be sent packing .
We have nowhere to go and all we can do is sit and wait and pray that the lord will come through for us , " said her mother .
A year passed and the elders decided to marry off Laisita to some old rich man by the name of Mr. Mambo .
He was known for his ruthlessness with women and every woman he married either died from beatings or became a cripple .
The elders knew that if they married her off the late Mr. Maweles farming lands would be there 's .
They knew that Laisita would now take care of her mother because she would be now married to the old man .
The men 's riches were normally measured by the number of cattle he had in his possession .
Laisita tried to tell her mother to intervene but her mother had nothing to say but to agree with the elders or face the consequence of being excommunicated .
The council of elders had always the last say .
In those days anything that a man said had no objection and was to be followed to the latter .
The marriage ceremony took place and she was sent packing to her husband 's place .
The amazing thing was that Mr. Mambo 's heart was so soft on Laisita .
He termed her as his jewel because of her beauty that complemented her light skin .
Laisita used to cry every day blaming his late father and the heavens for cursing them and making their lives miserable .
After a few months she got pregnant and her husband decided that he will make her a manyatta as he made for the other four wives that he married so that she can also raise her children in her own house .
A manyatta is a house that is built from mad , twigs and grass .
After her seventh month in pregnancy Laisita was now allowed to go out since her pregnancy was visible and no man would want to follow a pregnant lady around even if , she was young and beautiful .
One day on her way to the market she met with a mission lady called Grace .
Grace was the first white she had ever met in Samburu .
She used to see only white people back in the city .
When Grace saw her she was filled with pity because Laisita was young and to make matters worse she was also pregnant .
Grace was so nice and kind to her and she won the heart of Laisita .
After the introductions , Grace wanted Laisita to come to the camp to learn but Laisita refused she narrated everything to Grace and she told her if her husband would hear about it he would not agree , but Grace just offered to help her .
Grace gave her directions to the camping site in Samburu town and told her that they taught women on how to read write and do other things like weaving , beading and tailoring and all was for free .
Laisita was so eager to learn that she told Grace that she will find a way to come .
They parted ways and after a weeks ' time Laisita decided to go check on the camp because she was eager to learn and be skillful in life .
Laisita loved what she saw she stayed until it was late .
She was scared while going home because it was already night fall .
Since she was the husband 's favorite when she reached home , she lied to her husband that what she was looking for was not in the near market but far so she decide to go look for it in the next town .
Her husband did not scold her but told her never to go that far again if she wanted anything she was to tell him and he will send for it if it was not readily available .
Things continued like this until she gave birth to twin babies and she named them Lolo and Lee .
She stayed home until she became strong enough and she started going back to the camp .
There , Grace was to pick up from where she left to teach her .
After sometime , the husband was feed up with her going early and coming back late .
He decided to hire someone to follow her and when he was told where she normally goes he decided to tell her to stop .
Laisita was adamant at first , that she did not stop going to the camp consoling herself that if she comes home early her husband would not realize .
Unlucky was she that her husband followed her and he gave her a thorough beating asking her why she defied his authority .
Laisita stayed home for some days nursing her injuries .
After a few weeks she started going back to the camp .
Her other co - wives tried to warn her but there warning fell on deaf ears .
One day when she left the camp hurrying home she found her husband waiting for her in her manyatta .
" Where are you from ? , " her husband asked shouting at her .
" Ammmm !
Mmmmm !
I had gone for a wal ......... , " before Laisita could even finish her statement blows and kicks fell on her like rain falling on the roof top .
Mr. Mambo did this not because he wanted to beat up his jewel but it was to protect his ego and always have the final word in the home .
In their community to beat up a wife was not something strange or unusual but was a daily occurrence .
" Woyeee !
Woyee !
The father of my children , please stop it !
Please stop it !
Am sorry .
I wo n't repeat it again " , cried Laisita rolling and growling in pain , " My husband you will never see me again I promise you , please have mercy on me for the sake of our children . "
Mr. Mambo was so hot tempered that no one interrupted him or even intervened when he was displining his wives .
Everybody would listen from far and just node their heads in disbelief of how a human being can be so merciless .
Laisita in pain picked her eight month old children who were screaming and crying not knowing what was happening and started to consol them .
Her whole body was filled with bruises and she was acing all over .
News reached her mother of what had happened that one day she just packed her clothes and decided to go see her daughter .
" Mother ! , " Laisita cried out while she ran to embrace her mother with tears rolling down her chubby chicks .
She cried so dearly that her mother who was trying to be strong was filled with tears . "
Hush my daughter , I am here with you now .
I can not heal your pain but I can just afford to make you smile just for today . "
Her mother coming to visit her at her husband 's place was the best present she had ever received since she got married .
She prepared something small for her mother to fill her stomach with and they talked and laughed and when she asked after her siblings who ran away her mother just bowed her head and a drop of tear just rolled down .
She just concluded that they were not found .
After sometimes Mr. Mambo came to see Laisitas mother .
They talked for some time and since it was getting late Laisitas Husband retired to his manyatta to sleep .
After laisita had put the children to sleep her mother sat her down and told her what she had heard about her going to the camp to learn and her husband beating her up because of that .
Laisita did not deny when her mother asked if it was true .
Instead of her mother giving her lectures of how she should obey her husband she started telling Laisita of the mistake she herself had made and how she regrets it till this day and if only she could turn back the hands of time she would change on her approach to life itself .
Her mother regretted on how she used to stay at home and just wait for their late father Mr. Mawele to cater for everything in the house .
" If I was working , even if your father had lost his job I would have managed to take care of you and your siblings even if it meant struggling but we were together as a family .
But the fact that I was a house wife there was nothing I would have done , " her mother said , " Since am here I have decided that I will help you .
I will pretend that am sick and I will take care of the kids as you will be going to the camp to learn my daughter .
I want you to make something out of yourself .
I do n't know for how long this will continue but before your husband realizes you would have done something or even learnt a skill that will help you in future .
I know this will not change everything , but it will give you a head start in life it will at least help you to help your children and give you an opportunity in life . "
Laisita thanked her mother and promised that she will work hard and be more discreet so that her husband would not realized when she was going and coming .
The following morning Laisita told her husband that her mother was not feeling well and that she wanted to take care of her for a few days , since if she goes back to her place in the village , no one would take care of her since she was all alone .
Her husband had no other option but to agree with his jewel .
He told her only for a few days , because he did not want to miss his wife visiting him in his manyatta at night .
Laisita was so happy that they placed everything in motion .
Immediately her husband left the house the following morning , Laisita waited for some time and then sneaked to go to the camp .
Laisita did this every morning just to go to the camp to learn .
Laisita started catching up so fast because the children were now safe at home with their grandmother and they were no longer a distraction .
Grace was so impressed she decided that she would aid in giving her books to go read at home .
Laisita learnt how to do bead work , how to design clothes and saw them , she learnt how to read and write and many more .
Her mother stayed with her for weeks , they turned into months and finally a year .
One day Laisita told her mother of how Grace had offered to help her establish herself in the city and help her start a business since she was good in what she did .
Her mother was so happy but told her that she should first wait for her to return to her home so that she can run .
After two days Laisitas ' mother left for her home town .
Mr. Mambo was now happy that he would have ample time with his wife .
Little did he know that very soon his beloved wife will be nowhere to be seen .
When Graces ' mission was almost over at the camp she told Laisita to prepare herself that they would be living in a weeks ' time .
When the day arrived Laisita packed all her necessary belongings she was really praying to the heaven to show her favor .
When she was about to sneak out her husband called her .
It was her turn to lie down with her husband .
At first she was resistant but she realized that time is not on her side and she did not want to give her husband the impression that anything was going down so she immediately gave in .
Grace was really anxious because she did not know if Laisita will make it at the bus terminal on time or not .
This was the only opportunity for young Laisita to make a life for her and her children .
" Vuuuum !
Vuuuum ! , " the bus driver started the engines and Grace lost all hope .
When the bus was living the terminal fortunately Grace looked back and saw Laisita hurrying towards the leaving bus .
She was so happy that she shouted at the bus driver to stop the bus that a passenger who was to travel with her was chasing after the bus .
The driver stopped and immediately the door opened Grace ran out to help Laisita .
She hugged her and helped her with one of the twins .
Sweat was dripping all over her body .
She was panting so hard and told Grace she had run so fast as if a lion was chasing after her .
They both laughed and hurried inside the bus and their journey started .
It was a long journey to the city and Laisita was so exhausted because it had been long since she last travelled to search a distant place .
" Coookorocoooo ! "
The cock crowed in the morning , Mr. Mambo woke up and went to search for his beloved wife .
He wanted Laisita to make him breakfast that morning .
Shock on him when he called out but there was no answer .
Mr. Mambo called out several times and that attracted the other wives attention .
They all gathered at Laisitas manyatta to find out what the problem was .
" May be she is unwell , " one of the wives insisted .
The first wife her name Lucypa went into the manyatta to find out why Laisita was not responding .
What a rude shock she met with when she opened the door and saw that there were few clothes on the rack of the room and the place looked like it was deserted a long time ago because of the way things were left in a mess .
" Ohhhh !
My co - wives , " Lucypa called out in a shaking voice , " Our young wife is nowhere to be seen" . Mr. Mambo was filled with rage and banged the door of the manyatta to see for himself .
" Where is she ? , " he shouted " This early in the morning she has gone out with the children .
Where can she be ? " . "
My husband some of her clothes and the children 's clothes are missing ? , " Lucypa said .
Mr. Mambo was filled with a lot of bitterness in him he thought to himself where she might have gone but he had no clue .
He assembled the elders and some of the samburu warriors and they sat down to deliberate on the matter .
Some of the wives were happy that Laisita had disappeared and that now since she was nowhere to be seen , they might now have their husbands ' attention , but Mr. Mambo was determined to have Laisita back .
One of the elders asked , " Did you see her yesterday night ? "
" Yes I was with her at night it was her turn to lay with me and after that I took her to her manyatta and she closed the door after me and I went to my manyatta to sleep .
I did not notice anything unusual and I am still shocked that she carried the babies and also took some of their clothes with her , " Mr. Mambo replied .
Mambo loved Laisita so much because she was still young , beautiful and energetic in bed .
Even after giving birth she still went back to her size eight figure .
Unlike the other wives , Laisita was the most expensive bride he had paid for and the one that all the villages envied him for because of her beauty .
He loved her so much and despite the beatings that he gave her , he still bought her everything that she wanted .
Mr. Mambo was still not convinced that Laisita had gone because he thought that money and all the materialistic things that he gave her was all that a woman needed he did not think once to himself that there is much more than what meets the eye .
That is self driven motivation , curiosity to explore different things the urge to learn and become someone by one self .
Nightfall came while they still waited .
One of the elders suggested that tomorrow morning they should go see Laisitas mother may be she went there or might know where she is .
They retired to sleep but Mr. Mambo did not even want to close his eyes because all that was going through his mind were questions that he needed answers to .
" What would people say about me ?
I am the richest man in this village .
My word is always final and people fear me .
Was it that i was too harsh on my wives ?
Or may be too soft on them that Laisita ignored my authority and fled from her manyatta .
Was she seeing anyone ?
Who helped her escape ? "
No one had ever done something as brave as what Laisita did in the maasai land she was the first and stories spread like bush fire and everywhere Mr. Mambo was going people glanced in secret while whispering .
" Finally its morning , " Mr. Mambo said as he walked out of his manyatta .
He had been up all night asking questions that he had no answers to .
His eyes were red short blood due to lack of enough sleep .
He did not ever think that one can experience a very long day or night , he only heard people saying the phrase but as people say experience is the best teacher .
He called out to the elders and they assembled and the journey to Laisitas home began .
Mambo was so restless that whenever the bus stopped he asked if they had already reached .
After a few hours they came to Laisitas home .
Mrs. Mawele saw her in - laws and her heart jumped with joy she knew that her daughter had finally succeeded to run away but she pretended as if everything was okay .
" Welcome my in - laws , " She said with a broad smile , " What do I owe this unexpected visit for and why did you not inform me so that I could prepare one of your best dishes my husbands . "
" We are here not for pleasure but for serious business , " one of the elders lashed out , " How have you trained your daughter ?
Is that what you were taught by your own parents ? "
" My husband 's I do n't understand why are you insulting me ? "
Mrs. Mawele asked looking at Mambo .
Mambo was so furious and he was just looking around the house like he was searching for something .
The elders then explained to Mrs. Mawele that her daughter had gone missing and that they came to see if she was there .
Laisitas mother broke down into tears blaming them that he had left her daughter in there care but they had lost her .
She threw a tantrum and the elders got scared that they left telling her that they will do everything in their powers to find Laisita .
When they left , Laisitas mother jumped with joy and prayed for Laisita to the heavens to protect her and that her sacrifice be not in vain , that she may prosper and make a change in her life .
She just hoped and prayed that she will live long to see her daughter one day and her grandchildren .
In the city Laisita had already settled down .
Grace was so helpful that within a matter of weeks she helped Laisita acquire employment in a cleaning agency .
The work was hectic but because she had promised her mother that she will make it in life she worked so hard even without complaining because she knew that she had two more mouths to feed at home .
Laisita was doing well and sometimes she used to take double shift and stay without seeing her children so that she could earn the extra cash that she needed so much .
Within the first few months she started saving an eighth of her monthly income and the more over time she did the more money she got .
Her aim was to start her own business of bead work and sawing and Grace helped her by buying materials for her that when she was not at the cleaning job she made some nice pair of earrings and necklace .
Business was doing well and within a short time she had managed to start a cultural shop in Nairobi an area referred to as the Maasai market .
This was a place where tourist would go to buy suverneyers to take back to their home country .
Laisita thought that only Maasai were found there but the more she frequent the market the more she found all sought of tribes and different cultures that brought their products there to sell .
Life became so easy for her that she quite the cleaning job and enrolled herself back to school .
Her children were well taken care of by Grace and since she had a flowing income she managed to employee another helper to take care of the kids when Grace was out on a retreat mission with the church and also when she was either at work or at school .
Time passed and Lolo and Lee reached the attainable age to attend school , by then Laisita had cleared school and gotten a job as a receptionist in a hotel .
She never imagined that life would be this good considering how she had struggled in the past .
She often remembered her mother by sending her money through letters that were to be delivered by bus drivers who used to pass near their home on their way to Nairobi .
Laisita also knew that her husband Mr. Mambo was still looking for her and that he was now the Member of Parliament from her constituency back at home .
Laisita could not even travel back to see her mother because she knew that if Mr. Mambo got wind that she was in the area no one could save her because now his powers were beyond since he now controlled the chiefs , police and all the administrative officials .
It reached a point that Grace was to return back to her homeland in England because her mission contract was over .
Laisita was so sad because Grace was like her second mother , her sister and also like the best friend she never had .
They parted ways but Grace left her a contact number if incase she needed anything .
Grace was relieved that at least of all the young girls that had been married off she had managed to save one and at least she left knowing that even when she is not there that Laisita and her children will live comfortably .
Laisita did so well at her work place that she was later promoted to a supervisory position .
In her new position she had ample time to at least spend time with her kids , take them to fun place and buy them lots of fun toys and finger licking foods that they enjoyed at least twice a week .
It reached a point that Laisita took her mother inn so that she could live with her and also help with the children .
Her mother was so happy because her daughter was living a very comfortable life .
She was working hard and putting food on the table , paying all the bills of the house and buying clothes for them .
Laisita also hired a detective to go look for her lost two sisters , Laito and Ellena .
They just prayed and hoped with their mother that the two were not dead .
In our mother tongue we normally say , " Mountains do n't meet but people do " the world is indeed a small place .
One day when Laisita was on duty she heard someone who sounded exactly like her husbands ' voice .
She did not look back immediately but glanced in a pro like manner and shock on her it was the father of her children .
She moved swiftly through the crowd to go hide .
Her heart was pounding so fast that you could think the next thing it would do is jump out of her skin .
After she managed to escape she went to the receptionist desk to enquire of what Mr. Mambo was doing at the hotel .
Maggie the receptionist told her that the M.P was in the hotel because they had a three day conference at the hotel .
She asked why she was not informed but the receptionist told her that she had given her the memo that had been made .
When Laisita recalled the specific date it dawned on her that the same day was the day she got rained on and all her books and documents were so wet that the ink on them had faded so she decided to discard them .
" Damn !
Why did n't I ask for the documents again at least I would have aligned my offs with the function or even taken a sick leave . "
She told her herself .
She then rushed to her office and closed the door behind her .
Her worst nightmare had come right before her eyes .
Laisita was so scared that when she was still imagining of how she wanted the ground to open up and swallow her .
A knock was heard at the door .
A scissor like pain cut through her stomach .
It was as if someone had lit a match in her stomach .
" Who can it be ?
Does he know that am here ?
Should I open the door or should I just sit still and let the person who is knocking at the door get tired and go away ? "
these were the thoughts that were going through her mind .
But the knock was persistent the person was not going away and Laisita became so frighten and also she thought that if she did not open the door it would attract so much attention that she opened the door and Alas !
It was her mother she had just passed through the office to tell her daughter that she had been to the hospital to see the doctor and she only brought the prescription to her so that when she lives work she would pass by the chemist to buy the drugs for her .
" Mother !
Have you not seen Mr.
Mambo ? "
Laisita asked curiously , " His here in our hotel .
He came for a meeting with the other member of parliament . "
Her mother just looked at her and was asking if she was sure he was the one .
The fact that the two might come across him gave her mother chills all over her body .
They were asking each other how they can manage to get outside the premises of the hotel without attracting attentions and mostly without meeting with Mr. Mambo .
" We are doomed , " her mother said , " If that man even gets a scent of us in this hotel we are just dead meat .
Do you know what he can do to us ?
When you left he changed so much he is heartless and killing for him is not a big deal it 's like the morning greetings .
We should get out of this place as fast as possible I want to see my grandchildren getting married . "
Laisita then made a phone call to one of the security personnel that she trusted .
The watchman came rushing to Laisitas office because he knew that if Laisita was asking for a favor he would get a tip for himself that is inform of money .
Laisita then asked for permission from her boss to take her mother home pretending that she was so ill that she could not go alone .
Her boss agreed and she was told that the whole day the following day she would have to work double shifts it was not easy for Laisita but she had to agree so that she could escape .
Sneaking out was not easy but fruitfully they managed to escape through the back door of the hotel and they paid the watchman for his assistance .
They also had to walk quite a distance from the hotel to get a bus because unlike the front way where buses would pass in front of the hotel the back gate was quite deserted .
On arriving home , they were too exhausted that they immediately took their showers had dinner and retired to bed .
The whole night Laisita wondered what she would do if they met face to face .
But she gathered confidence and told herself whatever was to come she will face it .
She had seen worse and experienced difficult things .
The following morning Laisita woke up prepared herself but before she left she told her mother that incase she did not come back before midnight she should inform the police .
Her mother begged her not to go to work but she refused , all she could say was that she had to or the bills of the house were not going to pay themselves .
Her heart was just pounding when she entered the compound of her work place to her amazement the flashy cars that were packed outside the packing area were nowhere to be seen .
She then asked the watchmen where the M.PS were and she was informed that there trip was cut short because the vice president was holding a harambe in one of their constituencies so they had to postponed the meeting so that they could attend .
She was so happy and she smiled to herself .
That day she did her job so well that her boss was happy with her , there were no hiccups or hitches in everything that she did .
On the other hand the detective that Laisita hired had found a lead regarding her sisters .
He informed her but they were too late .
When they arrived at the place they were directed to , not many people were willing to talk .
They asked around but the news they got was that the sisters had already been adopted and the transaction normally did not take place on paper since most of the agents did not want the security agents to get knocking on their doors .
It was normally a black market operation .
They had hit another road block .
Laisita just gave up because she did not know where she could even find them .
This was the closest she had got to find her sisters .
Nairobi was so big and the possibility was that they could have been taken anywhere in the country because in those days devil worshipping was prone and many people had been killed and their bodies were found dumped and most of their private parts mutilated and missing .
Laisitas mother was so heartbroken she had done everything in her powers to get back her girls but all was in vain .
She had visited several witch doctors but they all swindled her money and gave her false hope .
She also had gone back to the shelter to find out if there was anyone who could give her leads to where the girls were at a price but some of the agents asked for outrageous amounts that they could not afford and the ones they could afford to pay gave her wrong directions .
She finally gave up and said that if they were to meet in this world or the next she would still be happy to see them .
Lolo and Lee were doing so well in school they had grown so big and they were now in their second grade .
Their mother was so happy because the two were top perform ace in their classes .
One day Lee who is self spoken asked his mother , " Mum !
Other children have two parents why do we only have one ? "
His mother was dumb founded and she did not know what to tell him .
Laisitas mother jumped to her rescue and told the boy that they had a dad but he was traveling around the world because he was a very busy man .
It never dawned on Laisitas that one day her kids would start asking questions about their dad .
She thought that she was saving them from his kind of life and forgot that he will always remain their father whether he was a good or a bad man .
Lee just brushed the story of and continued playing with his sister .
What a life Laisita thought to herself , what will be my next answer if the children ask after their father again and again ?
Will she give them the same answer or what will be the next lie ?
Her mother called her to the bedroom and interrupted her thoughts .
" Mother , " she called out , " I know what you are thinking , but I have decided to face my past , I have been running too much but if I do n't confront my fears I will forever remain a fugitive in my own world .
These are his children and right now am a stable woman .
I am now the manager at the hotel and I can now face Mr. Mambo .
He might have more money than me but the law will never be defeated I also have my connections and I know my rights and number of people who will stand by me in my time of need . "
Her mother was so impressed that she just hugged her daughter and told her that it was time .
She had stayed with her all this while so that Laisita could face her fears the fact that she had now grown up and had become the iron lady she was now ready to go back to her homeland and face the elders .
Mrs. Mawele told her daughter that if her father was alive he would have been the happiest man on this planet and that despite the hard time and trials his daughter conquered above all odds .
After three months Mrs. Mawele left for the village .
She was her daughters ' pillar of strength but she had to live and let her conquer her fears alone .
Laisita also saw it fit for her to go back to the village and give back to society as Grace taught her .
She was now well established and well educated and could express herself fluently and these were the qualities that she was going to take back to the village .
She knew that if she wanted to impress the elders who were still traditionalist and did not want to be more cultured with the western form of life she had to find a way to help their women to better themselves .
She knew that the key was to educate the women since the women are normally the pillar of the community .
Giving girls ' knowledge is like educating the whole community .
Laisita knew that this was the hardest battle to conquer but she prepared fully .
She looked for NGOs that dwelt with women by helping to teach them how to saw , make bead work and also on health issues like family planning methods and safe delivery .
She did all this because she had experienced it first hand and she knew their culture that the samburu people delivered at home and it was risky .
She also knew that the women there did not know about family planning and that is why most of them gave birth too many babies they could hardly carter for .
She also wanted to concentrate on the girl child education and tackle early marriage and the most pressing issue was female genital mutilation .
These she knew was the hardest of them all because this was a community that had started practicing these cultures way back as early as before her parents were even born .
She knew that if she conquered this milestone the rest will be a walk in the pack .
When Laisita had already prepared everything she arranged a meeting with her husband .
She sent him a letter to his office implying that she was an investor looking to develop his constituency .
Mr. Mambo was so impressed because the letter showed that the investor had a lot to offer and he really needed investors to improve his constituency in order to buy him another term in office and also his area was filled with constant raids which made investors to fear for their money .
An opportunity like this was something he could n't afford to turn down .
He prepared everything for the meeting and even called some of the community members to come and witness the occasion .
Laisita on the other hand arranged everything in order and just to be on the safe side they hired extra security personnel .
The meeting started with the Ngo delegates arriving , Laisita came on time but decided to stay in her vehicle .
Her heart was racing but so fast and she told herself it was now or never .
The meeting then started without the guest of honor who was Mrs. Laisita Mambo and Mr. Mambo was so confused when he was given the leaflet that had the day 's program and saw the name .
He thought many people shared the same names so it was not that bigger deal .
On the other hand Laisitas ' mother prepared to bring the children to the meeting so that they could meet their father .
They had planned everything and just hoped that the plan will not fail and blow up on their faces .
" Grandmother , what is this place and where is mother ?
We have not seen her since morning , " asked Lolo , " She just told as that today she had a big surprise for us .
What is the surprise .
" " Harsh children !
If I told you then it would n't be a surprise is it ?
We are going to meet your mother and she will tell you all about it , " their grandmother said .
The children got prepared quickly because they had already wasted precious time asking questions and they could n't wait to go meet their mother and see what was in store for them .
" Welcome everyone to this glorious occasion .
As your leader am the most happiest of you all because today marks the day that our constituency graduates from being a boy to a man .
I have been waiting for this day and today 's ' occasion will serve as a landmark for the development of our community .
We have toiled , labored and seen our fruits grow but today we will harvest our produce and show the rest that we can also do better , " said Mr. Mambo .
Screams of joy and ululation was heard and the community members started chanting his slogan , " Mambo !
The lion , Mambo !
The lion . "
" Rawwwwwwww ! "
He was heard mimicking the lion .
He was so happy and he introduced other members of the delegates to give their speeches .
But Mambo was worried when he realized that the list of delegates was almost through but the guest of honor had not yet arrived .
He tried to enquire around but the delegates told him that when the time arrived for the guest of honor to come on the podium she will show up .
After a short time Mr. Mambo got on stage after the delegates to introduce the guest of honor .
Shock on him when he finds out who he was to introduce with high flying words of beating all odds and conquering men was his long lost wife .
If he only knew he would have asked the ground to open up and swallow him alive .He also went further to urge people to be like her .
" As you all can see am curious as you to see the guest of honor , " he said laughing jokingly , " Am honored to introduce a woman of this community a successful one in deed .
Not many women always manage to shine in our community but this lady has beaten all odds and today she has showed the community that she will give back to society .
I would urge everyone who is seated to stand up and give this lady a standing ovation as we welcome Mrs. Laisita Mambo . "
Laisita gathered courage and the security personnel opened the door .
She walked out of the car and wow !
It was a sight to behold .
She had worn a gold coated watch and earrings with a touch of matching necklace .
A well ironed Shanna Jones tailor made material trouser suit black in color .
She complemented her dress code with gold high heels and a black Sandra West design hand bag .
Mambo was left speechless when she saw Laisita being helped by one of the bodyguards up the podium .
Am lost for words , Mambo just sat down and did not even wait for Laisita to greet him .
He wanted to storm out of the meeting but he could not because he did not want to leave a bad impression to his guests so he remained calm and gave a fake smile just to defend his ergo .
His heart was filled with so much bitterness but on the other side he was happy to see her .
He never forgot her smile .
He had a flash back of how Laisita used to massage him after they had layed together .
In spite of his ruthlessness with women he always had a soft spot for Laisita .
People did not know who she was she left the place when she was just a teen and twelve years later she comes to town as a grown , beautiful , eduated and prosperous woman .
Many people would refer to her as a lady of substance .
" Thank you my people , " Laisita spoke eloquently with a soft calm voice , " Am and still is a daughter of this community .
I have been through tough , temptations , trials and name them all hardship .
It was not easy for me but I had to come through for my beautiful twins . "
Whispers were heard all through the stadium and then one of the delegates arose to harsh people down and let Laisita speak .
" I am a married woman if I may say so but I had to sacrifice my children 's happiness and leave a gap that no other man could ever fill as a father to them .
So that I could give them a better life . "
Laisita then called on to his children to come and join her on stage .
News spread throughout the community that Laisita was back and everyone including her co - wives came to see for themselves .
They were always prohibited to attend such functions but they wanted to see for their own eyes if it was just a malicious rumor or truth itself .
When Mr. Mambo saw his twins his heart melted and as the saying goes blood is thicker than water he ran and without thinking what the community would say he embraced them with tears in his eyes and referred to them as his children .
Everyone was dazzled because how can this god come out of his high horse and show his tender side .
The kids were confused because Mr. Mambo was old enough to be there grandfather .
Laisita told one of the delegates to take Mr. Mambo off the stage so that the meeting could continue .
She knew he needed ample time with his children but told his mother to keep a close eye on him .
Laisita then went forward to tell the people of how they were to change the perception of the community they were way backwards inform of technology , education , facilities and even there customs were moving them backwards .
" My people , as women we are the back bone of the community if we sit back and relax by doing nothing we are just like sitting ducks and digging our own graves .
I have been around this country and I have seen what women can do .
Our jobs are not only restricted in the kitchen , to take care of the kids , do the cleaning and pleasure our husbands .
No !
We are much more , we deserve to be educated .
Our girls should be given an opportunity to make their own decisions .
Marrying them off will not solve the problem of reducing the mouths you are supposed to feed .
If my late father was alive this day , he would term me as a woman among men because I did the impossible .
If I can do it what about you ?
Do n't I have the same number of eyes , the same two hands , the same feet but what I did I just grabbed and held on to an opportunity for myself .
As my friends of the Ngos have said , we do not want to give you fish , but we want to teach you how to fish . "
Screams were heard and women started singing traditional songs .
Laisita then harshed them after abit of dancing and singing , " We respect our men , because they are the head of our families and we can not do this alone .
We are appealing to all men to come and help us to rise up as one .
No circumcision for the girl child , no more lack of education for our children we should forger ahead for a brighter tomorrow .
Accepting change does not mean that our culture will be eroded forever we want a better today , tomorrow and the future of a well educated community .
We have lost our men , our young boys and even women and children in raids . Circumsiton has also taken away our young girls because others die due to excessive bleedings and the teenage girls die due to complications during delivery after they passed the rite of passage and are married off .
Can we say enough is enough , because culture has taken so much but we will not allow it to ever harm us again .
Who is with me ?
, " " We stand with you , " a woman shouted and the rest replied the same .
Laisita was so happy that she had made a step towards winning the peoples heart .
She knew that some of the women will not stand by her , but already she had won the hearts of the majority that were there .
The problem was that she was not very sure about the men .
She knew that if she had the support of just a few elderly men of the community her work would be a bit easy .
To her utmost surprise Mambo came on stage and took the mic from Laisitas hands gently .
With a smile on his face he said , " I do n't know why it has taken me this long to realize that without women , we would not be here , " he then paused everyone looked at him in utter disarray .
" The fact that our mothers carried us in there womb for full term that is the whole nine months without thinking of aborting our lives , is a clear indication of the love they have for us .
Most of us men are pushed by ego not to listen to a woman because in our community there word if flaw .
This is a new generation we may be an analogue generation but we must transit to the digital error .
I am happy because as you all know me I am a woman schovanist .
I believe that in everything that happens I always have the final word whether good or bad .
I have learnt today by seeing my children have you ever seen young children speaking English as if they are from the English countries , " People laughed because they thought he was joking .
He then called his children and with his broken English he asked them questions and they replied fluently .
The villagers were amazed because to them only the white people 's children can talk that good .
" Can you see ?
Is that not a miracle ?
If these children can be this good what if we decided to educate the rest , how good will they be ? "
Cheers and jubilation was heard everywhere .
Mr. Mambo held Laisitas hand and they lifted their hands in unison to show that they would work together to fight till they conquered .
Laisita did not think that it would be this successful .
On the other hand what was to be like a business venture for Mr. Mambo turned out to be his redemption .
He was determined to do whatever was in his power to increase the well being of his people whether he was to be elected for a second term or not .
Provided he left a mark on his community was all he cared for .
After the function Laisita meet with her husband one on one .
As old as he was he was still playful with her forgetting that she was now a grown lady .
They talked in length of why she decided to leave without informing him and the reason she had decided to come back .
Mr. Mambo was so happy because as a politician he now needed someone with a strong mind and a wide scope thinker to help him with running the constituency because as many say behind every successful man there is a woman .
He knew that together they could make a difference in their motherland .
Laisita was happy with the offer and she decided that this was the opportunity she had always been longing for to be a voice for the women and put her ideas into action .
The support of her husband to her was the most assuring one because since he had the majority vote of the men her agendas will be accomplished .
Mr. and Mrs. Mambo drove to their homestead where she once lived to see her step children and co - wives and she knew if one wanted to make a change then charity should begin at home .
The other co - wives were happy to see her .
The homestead had reformed from grass thatched houses to bricked electrified homes .
They all settled down to have their meals and discussed of how they were to take all the girls of the homestead to start going to school and stop the circumstion for their girls because some of Mambos daughters had ran away to shelters to avoid getting the cut .
Mr. Mambo knew it was not going to be easy because his elderly wife valued tradition and as much as you can take a woman out of tradition it was not easy to get the tradition out of her .
The following weeks were tough for Mr. Mambo because they faced a lot of opposition from some prominent opposition leaders who slandered his name saying that Mr. Mambo was being dominated by his town wife .
They also spread rumors that Laisita was a prostitute when she escaped from Mr. Mambo and that is why she dresses so expensively and boosts of the money she has .
Mr. Mambo at times got so annoyed but Laisita was always there to calm him down .
The Mambos ' opened schools in the area and they made sure to offer bursaries to the children who were bright and willing to learn but had no financial capabilities .
They also introduced a feeding programme in the area that made sure to keep the children in school and they would learn on a full stomach .
To make learning easy they looked for sponsors from the ngos who brought books , pencils and shoes for the pupils every year making sure that they learnt with comfort .
They also went ahead to open up dispensaries ' in every locality for easier access of medical attention and also to stop the menace of sick people walking to farfetched areas to search for medical provisions in which in most cases almost all the patients died , firstly due to lack of money because some hospital demanded for money before anything is done to the patient .
The presidents first lady also came up with the idea of the beyond zero campaign .
This is where by mobile clinics were introduced to cater for home to home medical attention .
The mobile clinics attended to scenarios where a patient can not be able to move and they go to their aid .
They were equipped with all minor surgery equipments the necessary medication and also a nurse and a doctor .
The Mambos also solved the water problems by digging bore holes around dried areas to stop children who would at times skip school to go fetch water for their families .
Last but not list they started training courses that helped women with learning extra work like sawing , braiding , beading and other services that required a short period to learn since most of them complained that they did not want vast education since they were old .
Some of them joked by asking if they are the ones who will learn or their kids and will they all sit in the same classroom .
When most of them showed the urge to want to read and write that is when Laisita called on Grace for assistance .
They were tight on money and she needed volunteers to help .
Grace responded positively by sending three ladies from England .
They teamed up with Laisita and offered the ladies the adult education .
Apart from that they were taught them on how to speak in English and not forgetting to honor and respect their husbands .
These deeds changed the community .
The constituency that was deemed a war zone area of pastoralist proved to be a haven for many who called it home .
Mr. Mambo was the talk of the country .
People and even news channels praised him of his tenacity and rap ore with his people and mostly called him for interviews on the secret of his success and he always went boost fully with his beloved wife and he would jokingly tell the news anchor that the secret of their success lies with his wife .
Things were going so well until one day when Mr. Mambo was from a meeting going home , his car was hijacked by gun men and they rained bullets on the car until they made sure not a single soul was left alive .
Laisita was informed immediately when she was conducting one of the classes of the adult education in one of the camps .
She left immediately and drove speedily to the scene of the crime .
Tears covered her eyes when she saw her husband 's lifeless body around .
She knew that this was a political crime .
She threw a tantrum crying out aloud why they had killed her husband .
" I have lost my men , " She cried bitterly , " First it was my father , now my husband , why did you do this to me ?
Why did you not kill me also ? "
The women who were there tried to carry her away from there but she just held on to her husband corpse .
Her white spotted dress had already changed its color to red because it was soaked with blood .
Laisita had lost all hope in life .
This was the same man who destroyed her life but gave her ten folds more .
She had learnt to love him the way he was .
He reformed for the better and who said age can not love because age to her was just but a number .
The policemen came and took over the scene of the crime they promised to carry out the necessary investigations but Laisita knew it was just a way to cover their tracks .
After a week 's long moan the burial date was held on a weekend .
Many politicians came to give their condole senses which Laisita and the other wives took cordially .
Before her husband was laid to rest Laisita was told to give the final word .
In tears she composed herself , " My friend , the father of my children , the love of my life , because it 's you I have known since marriage and my most precious jewel .
I never thought that after being so far away from you for a long time , the cruel hands of death would snatch you away from me and deny me the prevelaige to see you grow old and take care of you .
But am glad , that I was the one who made you become who you were even if it was just for a short period of time .
I cherish the moments and I love you and I will always love you , " she then cleared her throat and continued with a stern voice , " I know you have left most of your businesses unattended to or pending .
My love , this I promise you that I will pick up from where you left .
I will fight and make sure that the post you left will not be filled up with a selfless , egocentric , schovanist who will only want to take us back from where we are from , just to quench his ego .
This is a war that I must win and even if it means that you will also kill me the same way you have killed my husband you are free to do so .
I will not be intimidated , I will not be scared and I will never step down for anyone .
We shall face off at the ballot . "
Screams of joy were heard and some of the men called out the late Mr. Mambos slogan but in a different way , " Laisita !
The lioness , Laisita !
The lioness " and women were heard rowing like the lioness .
" Ashes to ashes and dust to dust . "
She then poured soil on her husband 's grave and walked away .
When the time of the by elections were approaching , the opposition leaders based senseless accusations against her to try and pin her down but she had the eye of an eagle , the skin of a hippo and the courage of a tiger and not forgetting the support of her family and people .
To her , victory was not something that was bought on mere words but through actions and deeds .
Laisita won the election not with a land slide but with a margin that no one has ever broke the record till date .
She stands out not only by actions but by her wise wisdom with words .
She had the " it factor " and am till today searching for her replacement .
This is the story of the " iron lady . "
Perhaps of all , it troubled most the Herr Pfarrer .
Was he not the father of the village ?
And as such did it not fall to him to see his children marry well and suitably ?
marry in any case .
It was the duty of every worthy citizen to keep alive throughout the ages the sacred hearth fire , to rear up sturdy lads and honest lassies that would serve God , and the Fatherland .
A true son of Saxon soil was the Herr Pastor Winckelmann - kindly , simple , sentimental .
" Why , at your age , Ulrich - at your age , " repeated the Herr Pastor , setting down his beer and wiping with the back of his hand his large uneven lips , " I was the father of a family - two boys and a girl .
You never saw her , Ulrich ; so sweet , so good .
We called her Maria . "
The Herr Pfarrer sighed and hid his broad red face behind the raised cover of his pewter pot .
" They must be good fun in a house , the little ones , " commented Ulrich , gazing upward with his dreamy eyes at the wreath of smoke ascending from his long - stemmed pipe .
" The little ones , always my heart goes out to them . "
" Take to yourself a wife , " urged the Herr Pfarrer .
" It is your duty .
The good God has given to you ample means .
It is not right that you should lead this lonely life .
Bachelors make old maids ; things of no use . "
" That is so , " Ulrich agreed .
" I have often said the same unto myself .
It would be pleasant to feel one was not working merely for oneself . "
" Elsa , now , " went on the Herr Pfarrer , " she is a good child , pious and economical .
The price of such is above rubies . "
Ulrich 's face lightened with a pleasant smile .
" Aye , Elsa is a good girl , " he answered .
" Her little hands - have you ever noticed them , Herr Pastor - so soft and dimpled . "
The Pfarrer pushed aside his empty pot and leaned his elbows on the table .
" I think - I do not think - she would say no .
Her mother , I have reason to believe - Let me sound them - discreetly . "
The old pastor 's red face glowed redder , yet with pleasurable anticipation ; he was a born matchmaker .
But Ulrich the wheelwright shuffled in his chair uneasily .
" A little longer , " he pleaded .
" Let me think it over .
A man should not marry without first being sure he loves .
Things might happen .
It would not be fair to the maiden . "
The Herr Pfarrer stretched his hand across the table and laid it upon Ulrich 's arm .
" It is Hedwig ; twice you walked home with her last week . "
" It is a lonesome way for a timid maiden ; and there is the stream to cross , " explained the wheelwright .
For a moment the Herr Pastor 's face had clouded , but now it cleared again .
" Well , well , why not ?
Elsa would have been better in some respects , but Hedwig - ah , yes , she , too , is a good girl a little wild perhaps - it will wear off .
Have you spoken with her ? "
" Not yet . "
" But you will ? "
Again there fell that troubled look into those dreamy eyes .
This time it was Ulrich who , laying aside his pipe , rested his great arms upon the wooden table .
" Now , how does a man know when he is in love ? "
asked Ulrich of the Pastor who , having been married twice , should surely be experienced upon the point .
" How should he be sure that it is this woman and no other to whom his heart has gone out ? "
A commonplace - looking man was the Herr Pastor , short and fat and bald .
But there had been other days , and these had left to him a voice that still was young ; and the evening twilight screening the seared face , Ulrich heard but the pastor 's voice , which was the voice of a boy .
" She will be dearer to you than yourself .
Thinking of her , all else will be as nothing .
For her you would lay down your life . "
They sat in silence for a while ; for the fat little Herr Pfarrer was dreaming of the past ; and long , lanky Ulrich Nebendahl , the wheelwright , of the future .
That evening , as chance would have it , Ulrich returning to his homestead - a rambling mill beside the river , where he dwelt alone with ancient Anna - met Elsa of the dimpled hands upon the bridge that spans the murmuring Muhlde , and talked a while with her , and said good - night .
How sweet it had been to watch her ox - like eyes shyly seeking his , to press her dimpled hand and feel his own great strength .
Surely he loved her better than he did himself .
There could be no doubt of it .
He pictured her in trouble , in danger from the savage soldiery that came and went like evil shadows through these pleasant Saxon valleys , leaving death and misery behind them : burnt homesteads ; wild - eyed women , hiding their faces from the light .
Would he not for her sake give his life ?
So it was made clear to him that little Elsa was his love .
Until next morning , when , raising his eyes from the whirling saw , there stood before him Margot , laughing .
Margot , mischief - loving , wayward , that would ever be to him the baby he had played with , nursed , and comforted .
Margot weary !
Had he not a thousand times carried her sleeping in his arms .
Margot in danger !
At the mere thought his face flushed an angry scarlet .
All that afternoon Ulrich communed with himself , tried to understand himself , and could not .
For Elsa and Margot and Hedwig were not the only ones by a long way .
What girl in the village did he not love , if it came to that : Liesel , who worked so hard and lived so poorly , bullied by her cross - grained granddam .
Susanna , plain and a little crotchety , who had never had a sweetheart to coax the thin lips into smiles .
The little ones - for so they seemed to long , lanky Ulrich , with their pleasant ways - Ulrich smiled as he thought of them - how should a man love one more than another ?
The Herr Pfarrer shook his head and sighed .
" That is not love .
Gott in Himmel !
think what it would lead to ?
The good God never would have arranged things so .
You love one ; she is the only woman in the world for you . "
" But you , yourself , Herr Pastor , you have twice been married , " suggested the puzzled wheelwright .
" But one at a time , Ulrich - one at a time .
That is a very different thing . "
Why should it not come to him , alone among men ?
Surely it was a beautiful thing , this love ; a thing worthy of a man , without which a man was but a useless devourer of food , cumbering the earth .
So Ulrich pondered , pausing from his work one drowsy summer 's afternoon , listening to the low song of the waters .
How well he knew the winding Muhlde 's merry voice .
He had worked beside it , played beside it all his life .
Often he would sit and talk to it as to an old friend , reading answers in its changing tones .
Trudchen , seeing him idle , pushed her cold nose into his hand .
Trudchen just now was feeling clever and important .
Was she not the mother of the five most wonderful puppies in all Saxony ?
They swarmed about his legs , pressing him with their little foolish heads .
Ulrich stooped and picked up one in each big hand .
But this causing jealousy and heartburning , laughing , he lay down upon a log .
Then the whole five stormed over him , biting his hair , trampling with their clumsy paws upon his face ; till suddenly they raced off in a body to attack a floating feather .
Ulrich sat up and watched them , the little rogues , the little foolish , helpless things , that called for so much care .
A mother thrush twittered above his head .
Ulrich rose and creeping on tiptoe , peeped into the nest .
But the mother bird , casting one glance towards him , went on with her work .
Whoever was afraid of Ulrich the wheelwright !
The tiny murmuring insects buzzed to and fro about his feet .
An old man , passing to his evening rest , gave him " good - day . "
A zephyr whispered something to the leaves , at which they laughed , then passed upon his way .
Here and there a shadow crept out from its hiding - place .
" If only I could marry the whole village ! "
laughed Ulrich to himself .
But that , of course , is nonsense !
The spring that followed let loose the dogs of war again upon the blood - stained land , for now all Germany , taught late by common suffering forgetfulness of local rivalries , was rushing together in a mighty wave that would sweep French feet for ever from their hold on German soil .
Ulrich , for whom the love of woman seemed not , would at least be the lover of his country .
He , too , would march among those brave stern hearts that , stealing like a thousand rivulets from every German valley , were flowing north and west to join the Prussian eagles .
But even love of country seemed denied to Ulrich of the dreamy eyes .
His wheelwright 's business had called him to a town far off .
He had been walking all the day .
Towards evening , passing the outskirts of a wood , a feeble cry for help , sounding from the shadows , fell upon his ear .
Ulrich paused , and again from the sombre wood crept that weary cry of pain .
Ulrich ran and came at last to where , among the wild flowers and the grass , lay prone five human figures .
Two of them were of the German Landwehr , the other three Frenchmen in the hated uniform of Napoleon 's famous scouts .
It had been some unimportant " affair of outposts , " one of those common incidents of warfare that are never recorded - never remembered save here and there by some sad face unnoticed in the crowd .
Four of the men were dead ; one , a Frenchman was still alive , though bleeding copiously from a deep wound in the chest that with a handful of dank grass he was trying to staunch .
Ulrich raised him in his arms .
The man spoke no German , and Ulrich knew but his mother tongue ; but when the man , turning towards the neighbouring village with a look of terror in his half - glazed eyes , pleaded with his hands , Ulrich understood , and lifting him gently carried him further into the wood .
He found a small deserted shelter that had been made by charcoal - burners , and there on a bed of grass and leaves Ulrich laid him ; and there for a week all but a day Ulrich tended him and nursed him back to life , coming and going stealthily like a thief in the darkness .
Then Ulrich , who had thought his one desire in life to be to kill all Frenchmen , put food and drink into the Frenchman 's knapsack and guided him half through the night and took his hand ; and so they parted .
Ulrich did not return to Alt Waldnitz , that lies hidden in the forest beside the murmuring Muhlde .
They would think he had gone to the war ; he would let them think so .
He was too great a coward to go back to them and tell them that he no longer wanted to fight ; that the sound of the drum brought to him only the thought of trampled grass where dead men lay with curses in their eyes .
So , with head bowed down in shame , to and fro about the moaning land , Ulrich of the dreamy eyes came and went , guiding his solitary footsteps by the sounds of sorrow , driving away the things of evil where they crawled among the wounded , making his way swiftly to the side of pain , heedless of the uniform .
Thus one day he found himself by chance near again to forest - girdled Waldnitz .
He would push his way across the hills , wander through its quiet ways in the moonlight while the good folks all lay sleeping .
His foot - steps quickened as he drew nearer .
Where the trees broke he would be able to look down upon it , see every roof he knew so well - the church , the mill , the winding Muhlde - the green , worn grey with dancing feet , where , when the hateful war was over , would be heard again the Saxon folk - songs .
Another was there , where the forest halts on the brow of the hill - a figure kneeling on the ground with his face towards the village .
Ulrich stole closer .
It was the Herr Pfarrer , praying volubly but inaudibly .
He scrambled to his feet as Ulrich touched him , and his first astonishment over , poured forth his tale of woe .
There had been trouble since Ulrich 's departure .
A French corps of observation had been camped upon the hill , and twice within the month had a French soldier been found murdered in the woods .
Heavy had been the penalties exacted from the village , and terrible had been the Colonel 's threats of vengeance .
Now , for a third time , a soldier stabbed in the back had been borne into camp by his raging comrades , and this very afternoon the Colonel had sworn that if the murderer were not handed over to him within an hour from dawn , when the camp was to break up , he would before marching burn the village to the ground .
The Herr Pfarrer was on his way back from the camp where he had been to plead for mercy , but it had been in vain .
" Such are foul deeds ! "
said Ulrich .
" The people are mad with hatred of the French , " answered the Herr Pastor .
" It may be one , it may be a dozen who have taken vengeance into their own hands .
May God forgive them . "
" They will not come forward - not to save the village ? "
" Can you expect it of them !
There is no hope for us ; the village will burn as a hundred others have burned . "
Aye , that was true ; Ulrich had seen their blackened ruins ; the old sitting with white faces among the wreckage of their homes , the little children wailing round their knees , the tiny broods burned in their nests .
He had picked their corpses from beneath the charred trunks of the dead elms .
The Herr Pfarrer had gone forward on his melancholy mission to prepare the people for their doom .
Ulrich stood alone , looking down upon Alt Waldnitz bathed in moonlight .
And there came to him the words of the old pastor : " She will be dearer to you than yourself .
For her you would lay down your life . "
And Ulrich knew that his love was the village of Alt Waldnitz , where dwelt his people , the old and wrinkled , the laughing " little ones , " where dwelt the helpless dumb things with their deep pathetic eyes , where the bees hummed drowsily , and the thousand tiny creatures of the day .
They hanged him high upon a withered elm , with his face towards Alt Waldnitz , that all the village , old and young , might see ; and then to the beat of drum and scream of fife they marched away ; and forest - hidden Waldnitz gathered up once more its many threads of quiet life and wove them into homely pattern .
They talked and argued many a time , and some there were who praised and some who blamed .
But the Herr Pfarrer could not understand .
Until years later a dying man unburdened his soul so that the truth became known .
Then they raised Ulrich 's coffin reverently , and the young men carried it into the village and laid it in the churchyard that it might always be among them .
They reared above him what in their eyes was a grand monument , and carved upon it : " Greater love hath no man than this . "
No one , least of all Martin , could dispute that a man 's life should be guarded by his kin - but by those who had n't been born yet ?
Nobody in the neighborhood was surprised when Martin 's mother disappeared and Ninian came to take care of him .
Mothers had a way of disappearing around those parts and the kids were often better off without them .
Martin was no exception .
He 'd never had it this good while he was living with his old lady .
As for his father , Martin had never had one .
He 'd been a war baby , born of one of the tides of soldiers - enemies and allies , both - that had engulfed the country in successive waves and bought or taken the women .
So there was no trouble that way .
Sometimes he wondered who Ninian really was .
Obviously that story about her coming from the future was just a gag .
Besides , if she really was his great - great - grand - daughter , as she said , why would she tell him to call her " Aunt Ninian " ?
Maybe he was only eleven , but he 'd been around and he knew just what the score was .
At first he 'd thought maybe she was some new kind of social worker , but she acted a little too crazy for that .
He loved to bait her , as he had loved to bait his mother .
It was safer with Ninian , though , because when he pushed her too far , she would cry instead of mopping up the floor with him .
" But I ca n't understand , " he would say , keeping his face straight .
" Why do you have to come from the future to protect me against your cousin Conrad ? "
" Because he 's coming to kill you . "
" Why should he kill me ?
I ai n't done him nothing . "
Ninian sighed .
" He 's dissatisfied with the current social order and killing you is part of an elaborate plan he 's formulated to change it .
You would n't understand . "
" You 're damn right .
I do n't understand .
What 's it all about in straight gas ? "
" Oh , just do n't ask any questions , " Ninian said petulantly .
" When you get older , someone will explain the whole thing to you . "
So Martin held his peace , because , on the whole , he liked things the way they were .
Ninian really was the limit , though .
All the people he knew lived in scabrous tenement apartments like his , but she seemed to think it was disgusting .
" So if you do n't like it , clean it up , " he suggested .
She looked at him as if he were out of his mind .
" Hire a maid , then ! "
he jeered .
And darned if that dope did n't go out and get a woman to come clean up the place !
He was so embarrassed , he did n't even dare show his face in the streets - especially with the women buttonholing him and demanding to know what gave .
They tried talking to Ninian , but she certainly knew how to give them the cold shoulder .
One day the truant officer came to ask why Martin had n't been coming to school .
Very few of the neighborhood kids attended classes very regularly , so this was just routine .
But Ninian did n't know that and she went into a real tizzy , babbling that Martin had been sick and would make up the work .
Martin nearly did get sick from laughing so hard inside .
But he laughed out of the other side of his mouth when she went out and hired a private tutor for him .
A tutor - in that neighborhood !
Martin had to beat up every kid on the block before he could walk a step without hearing " Fancy Pants ! "
yelled after him .
Ninian worried all the time .
It was n't that she cared what these people thought of her , for she made no secret of regarding them as little better than animals , but she was shy of attracting attention .
There were an awful lot of people in that neighborhood who felt exactly the same way , only she did n't know that , either .
She was really pretty dumb , Martin thought , for all her fancy lingo .
" It 's so hard to think these things out without any prior practical application to go by , " she told him .
He nodded , knowing what she meant was that everything was coming out wrong .
But he did n't try to help her ; he just watched to see what she 'd do next .
Already he had begun to assume the detached role of a spectator .
When it became clear that his mother was never going to show up again , Ninian bought one of those smallish , almost identical houses that mushroom on the fringes of a city after every war , particularly where intensive bombing has created a number of desirable building sites .
" This is a much better neighborhood for a boy to grow up in , " she declared .
" Besides , it 's easier to keep an eye on you here . "
And keep an eye on him she did - she or a rather foppish young man who came to stay with them occasionally .
Martin was told to call him Uncle Raymond .
From time to time , there were other visitors - Uncles Ives and Bartholomew and Olaf , Aunts Ottillie and Grania and Lalage , and many more - all cousins to one another , he was told , all descendants of his .
Martin was never left alone for a minute .
He was n't allowed to play with the other kids in the new neighborhood .
Not that their parents would have let them , anyway .
The adults obviously figured that if a one - car family hired private tutors for their kid , there must be something pretty wrong with him .
So Martin and Ninian were just as conspicuous as before .
But he did n't tip her off .
She was grown up ; she was supposed to know better than he did .
He lived well .
He had food to eat that he 'd never dreamed of before , warm clothes that no one had ever worn before him .
He was surrounded by more luxury than he knew what to do with .
The furniture was the latest New Grand Rapids African modern .
There were tidy , colorful Picasso and Braque prints on the walls .
And every inch of the floor was modestly covered by carpeting , though the walls were mostly unabashed glass .
There were hot water and heat all the time and a freezer well stocked with food - somewhat erratically chosen , for Ninian did n't know much about meals .
The non - glass part of the house was of neat , natural - toned wood , with a neat green lawn in front and a neat parti - colored garden in back .
Martin missed the old neighborhood , though .
He missed having other kids to play with .
He even missed his mother .
Sure , she had n't given him enough to eat and she 'd beaten him up so hard sometimes that she 'd nearly killed him - but then there had also been times when she 'd hugged and kissed him and soaked his collar with her tears .
She 'd done all she could for him , supporting him in the only way she knew how - and if respectable society did n't like it , the hell with respectable society .
From Ninian and her cousins , there was only an impersonal kindness .
They made no bones about the fact that they were there only to carry out a rather unpleasant duty .
Though they were in the house with him , in their minds and in their talk they were living in another world - a world of warmth and peace and plenty where nobody worked , except in the government service or the essential professions .
And they seemed to think even that kind of job was pretty low - class , though better than actually doing anything with the hands .
In their world , Martin came to understand , nobody worked with hands ; everything was done by machinery .
All the people ever did was wear pretty clothes and have good times and eat all they wanted .
There was no devastation , no war , no unhappiness , none of the concomitants of normal living .
It was then that Martin began to realize that either the whole lot of them were insane , or what Ninian had told him at first was the truth .
They came from the future .
When Martin was sixteen , Raymond took him aside for the talk Ninian had promised five years before .
" The whole thing 's all my brother Conrad 's fault .
You see , he 's an idealist , " Raymond explained , pronouncing the last word with distaste .
Martin nodded gravely .
He was a quiet boy now , his brief past a dim and rather ridiculous memory .
Who could ever imagine him robbing a grocery store or wielding a broken bottle now ?
He still was rather undersized and he 'd read so much that he 'd weakened his eyes and had to wear glasses .
His face was pallid , because he spent little time in the sun , and his speech rather overbred , his mentors from the future having carefully eradicated all current vulgarities .
" And Conrad really got upset over the way Earth has been exploiting the not so intelligent life - forms on the other planets , " Raymond continued .
" Which is distressing - though , of course , it 's not as if they were people .
Besides , the government has been talking about passing laws to do away with the - well , abuses and things like that , and I 'm sure someday everything will come out all right .
However , Conrad is so impatient . "
" I thought , in your world , machines did all the work , " Martin suggested .
" I 've told you - our world is precisely the same as this one ! "
Raymond snapped .
" We just come a couple of centuries or so later , that 's all .
But remember , our interests are identical .
We 're virtually the same people ... although it is amazing what a difference two hundred odd years of progress and polish can make in a species , is n't it ? "
He continued more mildly : " However , even you ought to be able to understand that we ca n't make machinery without metal .
We need food .
All that sort of thing comes from the out - system planets .
And , on those worlds , it 's far cheaper to use native labor than to ship out all that expensive machinery .
After all , if we did n't give the natives jobs , how would they manage to live ? "
" How did they live before ?
Come to think of it , if you do n't work , how do you live now ? ...
I do n't mean in the now for me , but the now for you , " Martin explained laboriously .
It was so difficult to live in the past and think in the future .
" I 'm trying to talk to you as if you were an adult , " Raymond said , " but if you will persist in these childish interruptions - " " I 'm sorry , " Martin said .
But he was n't , for by now he had little respect left for any of his descendants .
They were all exceedingly handsome and cultivated young people , with superior educations , smooth ways of speaking and considerable self - confidence , but they just were n't very bright .
And he had discovered that Raymond was perhaps the most intelligent of the lot .
Somewhere in that relatively short span of time , his line or - more frightening - his race had lost something vital .
Unaware of the near - contempt in which his young ancestor held him , Raymond went on blandly : " Anyhow , Conrad took it upon himself to feel particularly guilty , because , he decided , if it had n't been for the fact that our great - grandfather discovered the super - drive , we might never have reached the stars .
Which is ridiculous - his feeling guilty , I mean .
Perhaps a great - grandfather is responsible for his great - grandchildren , but a great - grandchild can hardly be held accountable for his great - grandfather . "
" How about a great - great - grandchild ? "
Martin could n't help asking .
Raymond flushed a delicate pink .
" Do you want to hear the rest of this or do n't you ? "
" Oh , I do ! "
Martin said .
He had pieced the whole thing together for himself long since , but he wanted to hear how Raymond would put it .
" Unfortunately , Professor Farkas has just perfected the time transmitter .
Those government scientists are so infernally officious - always inventing such senseless things .
It 's supposed to be hush - hush , but you know how news will leak out when one is always desperate for a fresh topic of conversation . "
Anyhow , Raymond went on to explain , Conrad had bribed one of Farkas ' assistants for a set of the plans .
Conrad 's idea had been to go back in time and " eliminate ! "
their common great - grandfather .
In that way , there would be no space - drive , and , hence , the Terrestrials would never get to the other planets and oppress the local aborigines .
" Sounds like a good way of dealing with the problem , " Martin observed .
Raymond looked annoyed .
" It 's the adolescent way , " he said , " to do away with it , rather than find a solution .
Would you destroy a whole society in order to root out a single injustice ? "
" Not if it were a good one otherwise . "
" Well , there 's your answer .
Conrad got the apparatus built , or perhaps he built it himself .
One does n't inquire too closely into such matters .
But when it came to the point , Conrad could n't bear the idea of eliminating our great - grandfather - because our great - grandfather was such a good man , you know . "
Raymond 's expressive upper lip curled .
" So Conrad decided to go further back still and get rid of his great - grandfather 's father - who 'd been , by all accounts , a pretty worthless character . "
" That would be me , I suppose , " Martin said quietly .
Raymond turned a deep rose .
" Well , does n't that just go to prove you must n't believe everything you hear ? "
The next sentence tumbled out in a rush .
" I wormed the whole thing out of him and all of us - the other cousins and me - held a council of war , as it were , and we decided it was our moral duty to go back in time ourselves and protect you . "
He beamed at Martin .
The boy smiled slowly .
" Of course .
You had to .
If Conrad succeeded in eliminating me , then none of you would exist , would you ? "
Raymond frowned .
Then he shrugged cheerfully .
" Well , you did n't really suppose we were going to all this trouble and expense out of sheer altruism , did you ? "
he asked , turning on the charm which all the cousins possessed to a consternating degree .
Martin had , of course , no illusions on that score ; he had learned long ago that nobody did anything for nothing .
But saying so was unwise .
" We bribed another set of plans out of another of the professor 's assistants , " Raymond continued , as if Martin had answered , " and - ah - induced a handicraft enthusiast to build the gadget for us . "
Induced , Martin knew , could have meant anything from blackmail to the use of the iron maiden .
" Then we were all ready to forestall Conrad .
If one of us guarded you night and day , he would never be able to carry out his plot .
So we made our counter - plan , set the machine as far back as it would go - and here we are ! "
" I see , " Martin said .
Raymond did n't seem to think he really did .
" After all , " he pointed out defensively , " whatever our motives , it has turned into a good thing for you .
Nice home , cultured companions , all the contemporary conveniences , plus some handy anachronisms - I do n't see what more you could ask for .
You 're getting the best of all possible worlds .
Of course Ninian was a ninny to locate in a mercantile suburb where any little thing out of the way will cause talk .
How thankful I am that our era has completely disposed of the mercantiles - " " What did you do with them ? "
Martin asked .
But Raymond rushed on : " Soon as Ninian goes and I 'm in full charge , we 'll get a more isolated place and run it on a far grander scale .
Ostentation - that 's the way to live here and now ; the richer you are , the more eccentricity you can get away with .
And , " he added , " I might as well be as comfortable as possible while I suffer through this wretched historical stint . "
" So Ninian 's going , " said Martin , wondering why the news made him feel curiously desolate .
Because , although he supposed he liked her in a remote kind of way , he had no fondness for her - or she , he knew , for him .
" Well , five years is rather a long stretch for any girl to spend in exile , " Raymond explained , " even though our life spans are a bit longer than yours .
Besides , you 're getting too old now to be under petticoat government . "
He looked inquisitively at Martin .
" You 're not going to go all weepy and make a scene when she leaves , are you ? "
" No .... " Martin said hesitantly .
" Oh , I suppose I will miss her .
But we are n't very close , so it wo n't make a real difference . "
That was the sad part : he already knew it would n't make a difference .
Raymond clapped him on the shoulder .
" I knew you were n't a sloppy sentimentalist like Conrad .
Though you do have rather a look of him , you know . "
Suddenly that seemed to make Conrad real .
Martin felt a vague stirring of alarm .
He kept his voice composed , however .
" How do you plan to protect me when he comes ? "
" Well , each one of us is armed to the teeth , of course , " Raymond said with modest pride , displaying something that looked like a child 's combination spaceman 's gun and death ray , but which , Martin had no doubt , was a perfectly genuine - and lethal - weapon .
" And we 've got a rather elaborate burglar alarm system . "
Martin inspected the system and made one or two changes in the wiring which , he felt , would increase its efficiency .
But still he was dubious .
" Maybe it 'll work on someone coming from outside this house , but do you think it will work on someone coming from outside this time ? "
" Never fear - it has a temporal radius , " Raymond replied .
" Factory guarantee and all that . "
" Just to be on the safe side , " Martin said , " I think I 'd better have one of those guns , too . "
" A splendid idea ! "
enthused Raymond .
" I was just about to think of that myself ! "
When it came time for the parting , it was Ninian who cried - tears at her own inadequacy , Martin knew , not of sorrow .
He was getting skillful at understanding his descendants , far better than they at understanding him .
But then they never really tried .
Ninian kissed him wetly on the cheek and said she was sure everything would work out all right and that she 'd come see him again .
She never did , though , except at the very last .
Raymond and Martin moved into a luxurious mansion in a remote area .
The site proved a well - chosen one ; when the Second Atomic War came , half a dozen years later , they were n't touched .
Martin was never sure whether this had been sheer luck or expert planning .
Probably luck , because his descendants were exceedingly inept planners .
Few people in the world then could afford to live as stylishly as Martin and his guardian .
The place not only contained every possible convenience and gadget but was crammed with bibelots and antiques , carefully chosen by Raymond and disputed by Martin , for , to the man from the future , all available artifacts were antiques .
Otherwise , Martin accepted his new surroundings .
His sense of wonder had become dulled by now and the pink pseudo - Spanish castle - " architecturally dreadful , of course , " Raymond had said , " but so hilariously typical " - impressed him far less than had the suburban split - level aquarium .
" How about a moat ? "
Martin suggested when they first came .
" It seems to go with a castle . "
" Do you think a moat could stop Conrad ? "
Raymond asked , amused .
" No , " Martin smiled , feeling rather silly , " but it would make the place seem safer somehow . "
The threat of Conrad was beginning to make him grow more and more nervous .
He got Raymond 's permission to take two suits of armor that stood in the front hall and present them to a local museum , because several times he fancied he saw them move .
He also became an adept with the ray gun and changed the surrounding landscape quite a bit with it , until Raymond warned that this might lead Conrad to them .
During those early years , Martin 's tutors were exchanged for the higher - degreed ones that were now needful .
The question inevitably arose of what the youth 's vocation in that life was going to be .
At least twenty of the cousins came back through time to hold one of their vigorous family councils .
Martin was still young enough to enjoy such occasions , finding them vastly superior to all other forms of entertainment .
" This sort of problem would n't arise in our day , Martin , " Raymond commented as he took his place at the head of the table , " because , unless one specifically feels a call to some profession or other , one just - well , drifts along happily . "
" Ours is a wonderful world , " Grania sighed at Martin .
" I only wish we could take you there .
I 'm sure you would like it . "
" Do n't be a fool , Grania ! "
Raymond snapped .
" Well , Martin , have you made up your mind what you want to be ? "
Martin affected to think .
" A physicist , " he said , not without malice .
" Or perhaps an engineer . "
There was a loud , excited chorus of dissent .
He chuckled inwardly .
" Ca n't do that , " Ives said .
" Might pick up some concepts from us .
Do n't know how ; none of us knows a thing about science .
But it could happen .
Subconscious osmosis , if there is such a thing .
That way , you might invent something ahead of time .
And the fellow we got the plans from particularly cautioned us against that .
Changing history .
Dangerous . "
" Might mess up our time frightfully , " Bartholomew contributed , " though , to be perfectly frank , I ca n't quite understand how . "
" I am not going to sit down and explain the whole thing to you all over again , Bart ! "
Raymond said impatiently .
" Well , Martin ? "
" What would you suggest ? "
Martin asked .
" How about becoming a painter ?
Art is eternal .
And quite gentlemanly .
Besides , artists are always expected to be either behind or ahead of their times . "
" Furthermore , " Ottillie added , " one more artist could n't make much difference in history .
There were so many of them all through the ages . "
Martin could n't hold back his question .
" What was I , actually , in that other time ? "
There was a chilly silence .
" Let 's not talk about it , dear , " Lalage finally said .
" Let 's just be thankful we 've saved you from that ! "
So drawing teachers were engaged and Martin became a very competent second - rate artist .
He knew he would never be able to achieve first rank because , even though he was still so young , his work was almost purely intellectual .
The only emotion he seemed able to feel was fear - the ever - present fear that someday he would turn a corridor and walk into a man who looked like him - a man who wanted to kill him for the sake of an ideal .
But the fear did not show in Martin 's pictures .
They were pretty pictures .
Cousin Ives - now that Martin was older , he was told to call the descendants cousin - next assumed guardianship .
Ives took his responsibilities more seriously than the others did .
He even arranged to have Martin 's work shown at an art gallery .
The paintings received critical approval , but failed to evoke any enthusiasm .
The modest sale they enjoyed was mostly to interior decorators .
Museums were not interested .
" Takes time , " Ives tried to reassure him .
" One day they 'll be buying your pictures , Martin .
Wait and see . "
Ives was the only one of the descendants who seemed to think of Martin as an individual .
When his efforts to make contact with the other young man failed , he got worried and decided that what Martin needed was a change of air and scenery .
" ' Course you ca n't go on the Grand Tour .
Your son has n't invented space travel yet .
But we can go see this world .
What 's left of it .
Tourists always like ruins best , anyway . "
So he drew on the family 's vast future resources and bought a yacht , which Martin christened The Interregnum .
They traveled about from sea to ocean and from ocean to sea , touching at various ports and making trips inland .
Martin saw the civilized world - mostly in fragments ; the nearly intact semi - civilized world and the uncivilized world , much the same as it had been for centuries .
It was like visiting an enormous museum ; he could n't seem to identify with his own time any more .
The other cousins appeared to find the yacht a congenial head - quarters , largely because they could spend so much time far away from the contemporary inhabitants of the planet and relax and be themselves .
So they never moved back to land .
Martin spent the rest of his life on The Interregnum .
He felt curiously safer from Conrad there , although there was no valid reason why an ocean should stop a traveler through time .
More cousins were in residence at once than ever before , because they came for the ocean voyage .
They spent most of their time aboard ship , giving each other parties and playing an avant - garde form of shuffleboard and gambling on future sporting events .
That last usually ended in a brawl , because one cousin was sure to accuse another of having got advance information about the results .
Martin did n't care much for their company and associated with them only when not to have done so would have been palpably rude .
And , though they were gregarious young people for the most part , they did n't court his society .
He suspected that he made them feel uncomfortable .
He rather liked Ives , though .
Sometimes the two of them would be alone together ; then Ives would tell Martin of the future world he had come from .
The picture drawn by Raymond and Ninian had not been entirely accurate , Ives admitted .
True , there was no war or poverty on Earth proper , but that was because there were only a couple of million people left on the planet .
It was an enclave for the highly privileged , highly interbred aristocracy , to which Martin 's descendants belonged by virtue of their distinguished ancestry .
" Rather feudal , is n't it ? "
Martin asked .
Ives agreed , adding that the system had , however , been deliberately planned , rather than the result of haphazard natural development .
Everything potentially unpleasant , like the mercantiles , had been deported .
" Not only natives livin ' on the other worlds , " Ives said as the two of them stood at the ship 's rail , surrounded by the limitless expanse of some ocean or other .
" People , too .
Mostly lower classes , except for officials and things .
With wars and want and suffering , " he added regretfully , " same as in your day .... Like now , I mean , " he corrected himself .
" Maybe it is worse , the way Conrad thinks .
More planets for us to make trouble on .
Three that were habitable are n't any more .
Bombed .
Very thorough job . "
" Oh , " Martin murmured , trying to sound shocked , horrified - interested , even .
" Sometimes I 'm not altogether sure Conrad was wrong , " Ives said , after a pause .
" Tried to keep us from getting to the stars , hurting the people - I expect you could call them people - there .
Still - " he smiled shamefacedly - " could n't stand by and see my own way of life destroyed , could I ? "
" I suppose not , " Martin said .
" Would take moral courage .
I do n't have it .
None of us does , except Conrad , and even he - " Ives looked out over the sea .
" Must be a better way out than Conrad 's , " he said without conviction .
" And everything will work out all right in the end .
Bound to .
No sense to - to anything , if it does n't . "
He glanced wistfully at Martin .
" I hope so , " said Martin .
But he could n't hope ; he could n't feel ; he could n't even seem to care .
During all this time , Conrad still did not put in an appearance .
Martin had gotten to be such a crack shot with the ray pistol that he almost wished his descendant would show up , so there would be some excitement .
But he did n't come .
And Martin got to thinking ....
He always felt that if any of the cousins could have come to realize the basic flaw in the elaborate plan they had concocted , it would have been Ives .
However , when the yacht touched at Tierra del Fuego one bitter winter , Ives took a severe chill .
They sent for a doctor from the future - one of the descendants who had been eccentric enough to take a medical degree - but he was n't able to save Ives .
The body was buried in the frozen ground at Ushuaia , on the southern tip of the continent , a hundred years or more before the date of his birth .
A great many of the cousins turned up at the simple ceremony .
All were dressed in overwhelming black and showed a great deal of grief .
Raymond read the burial service , because they did n't dare summon a clerical cousin from the future ; they were afraid he might prove rather stuffy about the entire undertaking .
" He died for all of us , " Raymond concluded his funeral eulogy over Ives , " so his death was not in vain . "
But Martin disagreed .
The ceaseless voyaging began again .
The Interregnum voyaged to every ocean and every sea .
Some were blue and some green and some dun .
After a while , Martin could n't tell one from another .
Cousin after cousin came to watch over him and eventually they were as hard for him to tell apart as the different oceans .
All the cousins were young , for , though they came at different times in his life , they had all started out from the same time in theirs .
Only the young ones had been included in the venture ; they did not trust their elders .
As the years went by , Martin began to lose even his detached interest in the land and its doings .
Although the yacht frequently touched port for fuel or supplies - it was more economical to purchase them in that era than to have them shipped from the future - he seldom went ashore , and then only at the urging of a newly assigned cousin anxious to see the sights .
Most of the time Martin spent in watching the sea - and sometimes he painted it .
There seemed to be a depth to his seascapes that his other work lacked .
When he was pressed by the current cousin to make a land visit somewhere , he decided to exhibit a few of his sea paintings .
That way , he could fool himself into thinking that there was some purpose to this journey .
He 'd come to believe that perhaps what his life lacked was purpose , and for a while he kept looking for meaning everywhere , to the cousin 's utter disgust .
" Eat , drink and be merry , or whatever you Romans say when you do as you do , " the cousin - who was rather woolly in history ; the descendants were scraping bottom now - advised .
Martin showed his work in Italy , so that the cousin could be disillusioned by the current crop of Romans .
He found that neither purpose nor malice was enough ; he was still immeasurably bored .
However , a museum bought two of the paintings .
Martin thought of Ives and felt an uncomfortable pang of a sensation he could no longer understand .
" Where do you suppose Conrad has been all this time ? "
Martin idly asked the current cousin - who was passing as his nephew by now .
The young man jumped , then glanced around him uncomfortably .
" Conrad 's a very shrewd fellow , " he whispered .
" He 's biding his time - waiting until we 're off guard .
And then - pow !
- he 'll attack ! "
" Oh , I see , " Martin said .
He had often fancied that Conrad would prove to be the most stimulating member of the whole generation .
But it seemed unlikely that he would ever have a chance for a conversation with the young man .
More than one conversation , anyhow .
" When he does show up , I 'll protect you , " the cousin vowed , touching his ray gun .
" You have n't a thing to worry about . "
Martin smiled with all the charm he 'd had nothing to do but acquire .
" I have every confidence in you , " he told his descendant .
He himself had given up carrying a gun long ago .
There was a war in the Northern Hemisphere and so The Interregnum voyaged to southern waters .
There was a war in the south and they hid out in the Arctic .
All the nations became too drained of power - fuel and man and will - to fight , so there was a sterile peace for a long time .
The Interregnum roamed the seas restlessly , with her load of passengers from the future , plus one bored and aging contemporary .
She bore big guns now , because of the ever - present danger of pirates .
Perhaps it was the traditionally bracing effect of sea air - perhaps it was the sheltered life - but Martin lived to be a very old man .
He was a hundred and four when his last illness came .
It was a great relief when the family doctor , called in again from the future , said there was no hope .
Martin did n't think he could have borne another year of life .
All the cousins gathered at the yacht to pay their last respects to their progenitor .
He saw Ninian again , after all these years , and Raymond - all the others , dozens of them , thronging around his bed , spilling out of the cabin and into the passageways and out onto the deck , making their usual clamor , even though their voices were hushed .
Only Ives was missing .
He 'd been the lucky one , Martin knew .
He had been spared the tragedy that was going to befall these blooming young people - all the same age as when Martin had last seen them and doomed never to grow any older .
Underneath their masks of woe , he could see relief at the thought that at last they were going to be rid of their responsibility .
And underneath Martin 's death mask lay an impersonal pity for those poor , stupid descendants of his who had blundered so irretrievably .
There was only one face which Martin had never seen before .
It was n't a strange face , however , because Martin had seen one very like it in the looking glass when he was a young man .
" You must be Conrad , " Martin called across the cabin in a voice that was still clear .
" I 've been looking forward to meeting you for some time . "
The other cousins whirled to face the newcomer .
" You 're too late , Con , " Raymond gloated for the whole generation .
" He 's lived out his life . "
" But he has n't lived out his life , " Conrad contradicted .
" He 's lived out the life you created for him .
And for yourselves , too . "
For the first time , Martin saw compassion in the eyes of one of his lineage and found it vaguely disturbing .
It did n't seem to belong there .
" Do n't you realize even yet , " Conrad went on , " that as soon as he goes , you 'll go , too - present , past , future , wherever you are , you 'll go up in the air like puffs of smoke ? "
" What do you mean ? "
Ninian quavered , her soft , pretty face alarmed .
Martin answered Conrad 's rueful smile , but left the explanations up to him .
It was his show , after all .
" Because you will never have existed , " Conrad said .
" You have no right to existence ; it was you yourselves who watched him all the time , so he did n't have a chance to lead a normal life , get married , have children .... " Most of the cousins gasped as the truth began to percolate through .
" I knew from the very beginning , " Conrad finished , " that I did n't have to do anything at all .
I just had to wait and you would destroy yourselves . "
" I do n't understand , " Bartholomew protested , searching the faces of the cousins closest to him .
" What does he mean , we have never existed ?
We 're here , are n't we ?
What - " " Shut up ! "
Raymond snapped .
He turned on Martin .
" You do n't seem surprised . "
The old man grinned .
" I 'm not .
I figured it all out years ago . "
At first , he had wondered what he should do .
Would it be better to throw them into a futile panic by telling them or to do nothing ?
He had decided on the latter ; that was the role they had assigned him - to watch and wait and keep out of things - and that was the role he would play .
" You knew all the time and you did n't tell us ! "
Raymond spluttered .
" After we 'd been so good to you , making a gentleman out of you instead of a criminal .... That 's right , " he snarled , " a criminal !
An alcoholic , a thief , a derelict !
How do you like that ? "
" Sounds like a rich , full life , " Martin said wistfully .
What an exciting existence they must have done him out of !
But then , he could n't help thinking , he - he and Conrad together , of course - had done them out of any kind of existence .
It was n't his responsibility , though ; he had done nothing but let matters take whatever course was destined for them .
If only he could be sure that it was the better course , perhaps he would n't feel that nagging sense of guilt inside him .
Strange - where , in his hermetic life , could he possibly have developed such a queer thing as a conscience ?
" Then we 've wasted all this time , " Ninian sobbed , " all this energy , all this money , for nothing ! "
" But you were nothing to begin with , " Martin told them .
And then , after a pause , he added , " I only wish I could be sure there had been some purpose to this . "
He did n't know whether it was approaching death that dimmed his sight , or whether the frightened crowd that pressed around him was growing shadowy .
" I wish I could feel that some good had been done in letting you be wiped out of existence , " he went on voicing his thoughts .
" But I know that the same thing that happened to your worlds and my world will happen all over again .
To other people , in other times , but again .
It 's bound to happen .
There is n't any hope for humanity . "
One man could n't really change the course of human history , he told himself .
Two men , that was - one real , one a shadow .
Conrad came close to the old man 's bed .
He was almost transparent .
" No , " he said , " there is hope .
They did n't know the time transmitter works two ways .
I used it for going into the past only once - just this once .
But I 've gone into the future with it many times .
And - " he pressed Martin 's hand - " believe me , what I did - what we did , you and I - serves a purpose .
It will change things for the better .
Everything is going to be all right . "
Was Conrad telling him the truth , Martin wondered , or was he just giving the conventional reassurance to the dying ?
More than that , was he trying to convince himself that what he had done was the right thing ?
Every cousin had assured Martin that things were going to be all right .
Was Conrad actually different from the rest ?
His plan had worked and the others ' had n't , but then all his plan had consisted of was doing nothing .
That was all he and Martin had done ... nothing .
Were they absolved of all responsibility merely because they had stood aside and taken advantage of the others ' weaknesses ?
" Why , " Martin said to himself , " in a sense , it could be said that I have fulfilled my original destiny - that I am a criminal . "
Well , it did n't matter ; whatever happened , no one could hold him to blame .
He held no stake in the future that was to come .
It was other men 's future - other men 's problem .
He died very peacefully then , and , since he was the only one left on the ship , there was nobody to bury him .
The unmanned yacht drifted about the seas for years and gave rise to many legends , none of them as unbelievable as the truth .
There was an air of calm and reserved opulence about the Weightman mansion that spoke not of money squandered , but of wealth prudently applied .
Standing on a corner of the Avenue no longer fashionable for residence , it looked upon the swelling tide of business with an expression of complacency and half - disdain .
The house was not beautiful .
There was nothing in its straight front of chocolate - colored stone , its heavy cornices , its broad , staring windows of plate glass , its carved and bronze - bedecked mahogany doors at the top of the wide stoop , to charm the eye or fascinate the imagination .
But it was eminently respectable , and in its way imposing .
It seemed to say that the glittering shops of the jewelers , the milliners , the confectioners , the florists , the picture - dealers , the furriers , the makers of rare and costly antiquities , retail traders in luxuries of life , were beneath the notice of a house that had its foundations in the high finance , and was built literally and figuratively in the shadow of St. Petronius ' Church .
At the same time there was something self - pleased and congratulatory in the way in which the mansion held its own amid the changing neighborhood .
It almost seemed to be lifted up a little , among the tall buildings near at hand , as if it felt the rising value of the land on which it stood .
John Weightman was like the house into which he had built himself thirty years ago , and in which his ideals and ambitions were incrusted .
He was a self - made man .
But in making himself he had chosen a highly esteemed pattern and worked according to the approved rules .
There was nothing irregular , questionable , flamboyant about him .
He was solid , correct , and justly successful .
His minor tastes , of course , had been carefully kept up to date .
At the proper time , pictures of the Barbizon masters , old English plate and portraits , bronzes by Barye and marbles by Rodin , Persian carpets and Chinese porcelains , had been introduced to the mansion .
It contained a Louis Quinze reception - room , an Empire drawing - room , a Jacobean dining - room , and various apartments dimly reminiscent of the styles of furniture affected by deceased monarchs .
That the hallways were too short for the historic perspective did not make much difference .
American decorative art is capable de tout , it absorbs all periods .
Of each period Mr. Weightman wished to have something of the best .
He understood its value , present as a certificate , and prospective as an investment .
It was only in the architecture of his town house that he remained conservative , immovable , one might almost say Early - Victorian - Christian .
His country house at Dulwich - on - the - Sound was a palace of the Italian Renaissance .
But in town he adhered to an architecture which had moral associations , the Nineteenth - Century - Brownstone epoch .
It was a symbol of his social position , his religious doctrine , and even , in a way , of his business creed .
" A man of fixed principles , " he would say , " should express them in the looks of his house .
New York changes its domestic architecture too rapidly .
It is like divorce .
It is not dignified .
I do n't like it .
Extravagance and fickleness are advertised in most of these new houses .
I wish to be known for different qualities .
Dignity and prudence are the things that people trust .
Every one knows that I can afford to live in the house that suits me .
It is a guarantee to the public .
It inspires confidence .
It helps my influence .
There is a text in the Bible about ' a house that hath foundations . '
That is the proper kind of a mansion for a solid man . "
Harold Weightman had often listened to his father discoursing in this fashion on the fundamental principles of life , and always with a divided mind .
He admired immensely his father 's talents and the single - minded energy with which he improved them .
But in the paternal philosophy there was something that disquieted and oppressed the young man , and made him gasp inwardly for fresh air and free action .
At times , during his college course and his years at the law school , he had yielded to this impulse and broken away - now toward extravagance and dissipation , and then , when the reaction came , toward a romantic devotion to work among the poor .
He had felt his father 's disapproval for both of these forms of imprudence ; but is was never expressed in a harsh or violent way , always with a certain tolerant patience , such as one might show for the mistakes and vagaries of the very young .
John Weightman was not hasty , impulsive , inconsiderate , even toward his own children .
With them , as with the rest of the world , he felt that he had a reputation to maintain , a theory to vindicate .
He could afford to give them time to see that he was absolutely right .
One of his favorite Scripture quotations was , " Wait on the Lord . "
He had applied it to real estate and to people , with profitable results .
But to human persons the sensation of being waited for is not always agreeable .
Sometimes , especially with the young , it produces a vague restlessness , a dumb resentment , which is increased by the fact that one can hardly explain or justify it .
Of this John Weightman was not conscious .
It lay beyond his horizon .
He did not take it into account in the plan of life which he made for himself and for his family as the sharers and inheritors of his success .
" Father plays us , " said Harold , in a moment of irritation , to his mother , " like pieces in a game of chess .
" My dear , " said that lady , whose faith in her husband was religious , " you ought not to speak so impatiently .
At least he wins the game .
He is one of the most respected men in New York .
And he is very generous , too . "
" I wish he would be more generous in letting us be ourselves , " said the young man .
" He always has something in view for us and expects to move us up to it . "
" But is n't it always for our benefit ? "
replied his mother .
" Look what a position we have .
No one can say there is any taint on our money .
There are no rumors about your father .
He has kept the laws of God and of man .
He has never made any mistakes . "
Harold got up from his chair and poked the fire .
Then he came back to the ample , well - gowned , firm - looking lady , and sat beside her on the sofa .
He took her hand gently and looked at the two rings - a thin band of yellow gold , and a small solitaire diamond - which kept their place on her third finger in modest dignity , as if not shamed , but rather justified , by the splendor of the emerald which glittered beside them .
" Mother , " he said , " you have a wonderful hand .
And father made no mistake when he won you .
But are you sure he has always been so inerrant ? "
" Harold , " she exclaimed , a little stiffly , " what do you mean ?
His life is an open book . "
" Oh , " he answered , " I do n't mean anything bad , mother dear .
I know the governor 's life is an open book - a ledger , if you like , kept in the best bookkeeping hand , and always ready for inspection - every page correct , and showing a handsome balance .
But is n't it a mistake not to allow us to make our own mistakes , to learn for ourselves , to live our own lives ?
Must we be always working for ' the balance , ' in one thing or another ?
I want to be myself - to get outside of this everlasting , profitable ' plan ' - to let myself go , and lose myself for a while at least - to do the things that I want to do , just because I want to do them . "
" My boy , " said his mother , anxiously , " you are not going to do anything wrong or foolish ?
You know the falsehood of that old proverb about wild oats . "
He threw back his head and laughed .
" Yes , mother , " he answered , " I know it well enough .
But in California , you know , the wild oats are one of the most valuable crops .
They grow all over the hillsides and keep the cattle and the horses alive .
But that was n't what I meant - to sow wild oats .
Say to pick wild flowers , if you like , or even to chase wild geese - to do something that seems good to me just for its own sake , not for the sake of wages of one kind or another .
I feel like a hired man , in the service of this magnificent mansion - say in training for father 's place as majordomo .
I 'd like to get out some way , to feel free - perhaps to do something for others . "
The young man 's voice hesitated a little .
" Yes , it sounds like ca nt , I know , but sometimes I feel as if I 'd like to do some good in the world , if father only would n't insist upon God 's putting it into the ledger . "
His mother moved uneasily , and a slight look of bewilderment came into her face .
" Is n't that almost irreverent ? "
she asked .
" Surely the righteous must have their reward .
And your father is good .
See how much he gives to all the established charities , how many things he has founded .
He 's always thinking of others , and planning for them .
And surely , for us , he does everything .
How well he has planned this trip to Europe for me and the girls - the court - presentation at Berlin , the season on the Riviera , the visits in England with the Plumptons and the Halverstones .
He says Lord Halverstone has the finest old house in Sussex , pure Elizabethan , and all the old customs are kept up , too - family prayers every morning for all the domestics .
By - the - way , you know his son Bertie , I believe . "
Harold smiled a little to himself as he answered : " Yes , I fished at Catalina Island last June with the Honorable Ethelbert ; he 's rather a decent chap , in spite of his ingrowing mind .
But you ?
- mother , you are simply magnificent !
You are father 's masterpiece . "
The young man leaned over to kiss her , and went up to the Riding Club for his afternoon canter in the Park .
So it came to pass , early in December , that Mrs. Weightman and her two daughters sailed for Europe , on their serious pleasure trip , even as it had been written in the book of Providence ; and John Weightman , who had made the entry , was left to pass the rest of the winter with his son and heir in the brownstone mansion .
They were comfortable enough .
The machinery of the massive establishment ran as smoothly as a great electric dynamo .
They were busy enough , too .
John Weightman 's plans and enterprises were complicated , though his principle of action was always simple - to get good value for every expenditure and effort .
The banking - house of which he was the chief , the brain , the will , the absolutely controlling hand , was so admirably organized that the details of its direction took but little time .
But the scores of other interests that radiated from it and were dependent upon it - or perhaps it would be more accurate to say , that contributed to its solidity and success - the many investments , industrial , political , benevolent , reformatory , ecclesiastical , that had made the name of Weightman well known and potent in city , church , and state , demanded much attention and careful steering , in order that each might produce the desired result .
There were board meetings of corporations and hospitals , conferences in Wall Street and at Albany , consultations and committee meetings in the brownstone mansion .
For a share in all this business and its adjuncts John Weightman had his son in training in one of the famous law firms of the city ; for he held that banking itself is a simple affair , the only real difficulties of finance are on its legal side .
Meantime he wished the young man to meet and know the men with whom he would have to deal when he became a partner in the house .
So a couple of dinners were given in the mansion during December , after which the father called the son 's attention to the fact that over a hundred million dollars had sat around the board .
But on Christmas Eve father and son were dining together without guests , and their talk across the broad table , glittering with silver and cut glass , and softly lit by shaded candles , was intimate , though a little slow at times .
The elder man was in rather a rare mood , more expansive and confidential than usual ; and , when the coffee was brought in and they were left alone , he talked more freely of his personal plans and hopes than he had ever done before .
" I feel very grateful to - night , " said he , at last ; " it must be something in the air of Christmas that gives me this feeling of thankfulness for the many divine mercies that have been bestowed upon me .
All the principles by which I have tried to guide my life have been justified .
I have never made the value of this salted almond by anything that the courts would not uphold , at least in the long run , and yet - or would n't it be truer to say and therefore ?
- my affairs have been wonderfully prospered .
There 's a great deal in that text ' Honesty is the best ' - but no , that 's not from the Bible , after all , is it ?
Wait a moment ; there is something of that kind , I know . "
" May I light a cigar , father , " said Harold , turning away to hide a smile , " while you are remembering the text ? "
" Yes , certainly , " answered the elder man , rather shortly ; " you know I do n't dislike the smell .
But it is a wasteful , useless habit , and therefore I have never practised it .
Nothing useless is worth while , that 's my motto - nothing that does not bring the reward .
Oh , now I recall the text , ' Verily I say unto you they have their reward . '
I shall ask Doctor Snodgrass to preach a sermon on that verse some day . "
" Using you as an illustration ? "
" Well , not exactly that ; but I could give him some good materials from my own experience to prove the truth of Scripture .
I can honestly say that there is not one of my charities that has not brought me in a good return , either in the increase of influence , the building up of credit , or the association with substantial people .
Of course you have to be careful how you give , in order to secure the best results - no indiscriminate giving - no pennies in beggars ' hats !
It has been one of my principles always to use the same kind of judgment in charities that I use in my other affairs , and they have not disappointed me . "
" Even the check that you put in the plate when you take the offertory up the aisle on Sunday morning ? "
" Certainly ; though there the influence is less direct ; and I must confess that I have my doubts in regard to the collection for Foreign Missions .
That always seems to me romantic and wasteful .
You never hear from it in any definite way .
They say the missionaries have done a good deal to open the way for trade ; perhaps - but they have also gotten us into commercial and political difficulties .
Yet I give to them - a little - it is a matter of conscience with me to identify myself with all the enterprises of the Church ; it is the mainstay of social order and a prosperous civilization .
But the best forms of benevolence are the well - established , organized ones here at home , where people can see them and know what they are doing . "
" You mean the ones that have a local habitation and a name . "
" Yes ; they offer by far the safest return , though of course there is something gained by contributing to general funds .
A public man ca n't afford to be without public spirit .
But on the whole I prefer a building , or an endowment .
There is a mutual advantage to a good name and a good institution in their connection in the public mind .
It helps them both .
Remember that , my boy .
Of course at the beginning you will have to practise it in a small way ; later , you will have larger opportunities .
But try to put your gifts where they can be identified and do good all around .
You 'll see the wisdom of it in the long run . "
" I can see it already , sir , and the way you describe it looks amazingly wise and prudent .
In other words , we must cast our bread on the waters in large loaves , carried by sound ships marked with the owner 's name , so that the return freight will be sure to come back to us . "
The father laughed , but his eyes were frowning a little as if he suspected something irreverent under the respectful reply .
" You put it humorously , but there 's sense in what you say .
Why not ?
God rules the sea ; but He expects us to follow the laws of navigation and commerce .
Why not take good care of your bread , even when you give it away ? "
" It 's not for me to say why not - and yet I can think of cases - " The young man hesitated for a moment .
His half - finished cigar had gone out .
He rose and tossed it into the fire , in front of which he remained standing - a slender , eager , restless young figure , with a touch of hunger in the fine face , strangely like and unlike the father , at whom he looked with half - wistful curiosity .
" The fact is , sir , " he continued , " there is such a case in my mind now , and it is a good deal on my heart , too .
So I thought of speaking to you about it to - night .
You remember Tom Rollins , the Junior who was so good to me when I entered college ? "
The father nodded .
He remembered very well indeed the annoying incidents of his son 's first escapade , and how Rollins had stood by him and helped to avoid a public disgrace , and how a close friendship had grown between the two boys , so different in their fortunes .
" Yes , " he said , " I remember him .
He was a promising young man .
Has he succeeded ? "
" Not exactly - that is not yet .
His business has been going rather badly .
He has a wife and little baby , you know .
And now he has broken down , - something wrong with his lungs .
The doctor says his only chance is a year or eighteen months in Colorado .
I wish we could help him . "
" How much would it cost ? "
" Three or four thousand , perhaps , as a loan . "
" Does the doctor say he will get well ? "
" A fighting chance - the doctor says . "
The face of the older man changed subtly .
Not a line was altered , but it seemed to have a different substance , as if it were carved out of some firm , imperishable stuff .
" A fighting chance , " he said , " may do for a speculation , but it is not a good investment .
You owe something to young Rollins .
Your grateful feeling does you credit .
But do n't overwork it .
Send him three or four hundred , if you like .
You 'll never hear from it again , except in the letter of thanks .
But for Heaven 's sake do n't be sentimental .
Religion is not a matter of sentiment ; it 's a matter of principle . "
The face of the younger man changed now .
But instead of becoming fixed and graven , it seemed to melt into life by the heat of an inward fire .
His nostrils quivered with quick breath , his lips were curled .
" Principle ! "
he said .
" You mean principal - and interest too .
Well , sir , you know best whether that is religion or not .
But if it is , count me out , please .
Tom saved me from going to the devil , six years ago ; and I 'll be damned if I do n't help him to the best of my ability now . "
John Weightman looked at his son steadily .
" Harold , " he said at last , " you know I dislike violent language , and it never has any influence with me .
If I could honestly approve of this proposition of yours , I 'd let you have the money ; but I ca n't ; it 's extravagant and useless .
But you have your Christmas check for a thousand dollars coming to you to - morrow .
You can use it as you please .
I never interfere with your private affairs . "
" Thank you , " said Harold .
" Thank you very much !
But there 's another private affair .
I want to get away from this life , this town , this house .
It stifles me .
You refused last summer when I asked you to let me go up to Grenfell 's Mission on the Labrador .
I could go now , at least as far as the Newfoundland Station .
Have you changed your mind ? "
" Not at all .
I think it is an exceedingly foolish enterprise .
It would interrupt the career that I have marked out for you . "
" Well , then , here 's a cheaper proposition .
Algy Vanderhoof wants me to join him on his yacht with - well , with a little party - to cruise in the West Indies .
Would you prefer that ? "
" Certainly not !
The Vanderhoof set is wild and godless - I do not wish to see you keeping company with fools who walk in the broad and easy way that leads to perdition . "
" It is rather a hard choice , " said the young man , with a short laugh , turning toward the door .
" According to you there 's very little difference - a fool 's paradise or a fool 's hell !
Well , it 's one or the other for me , and I 'll toss up for it to - night : heads , I lose ; tails , the devil wins .
Anyway , I 'm sick of this , and I 'm out of it . "
" Harold , " said the older man ( and there was a slight tremor in his voice ) , " do n't let us quarrel on Christmas Eve .
All I want is to persuade you to think seriously of the duties and responsibilities to which God has called you - do n't speak lightly of heaven and hell - remember , there is another life . "
The young man came back and laid his hand upon his father 's shoulder .
" Father , " he said , " I want to remember it .
I try to believe in it .
But somehow or other , in this house , it all seems unreal to me .
No doubt all you say is perfectly right and wise .
I do n't venture to argue against it , but I ca n't feel it - that 's all .
If I 'm to have a soul , either to lose or to save , I must really live .
Just now neither the present nor the future means anything to me .
But surely we wo n't quarrel .
I 'm very grateful to you , and we 'll part friends .
Good - night , sir . "
The father held out his hand in silence .
The heavy portiere dropped noiselessly behind the son , and he went up the wide , curving stairway to his own room .
Meantime John Weightman sat in his carved chair in the Jacobean dining - room .
He felt strangely old and dull .
The portraits of beautiful women by Lawrence and Reynolds and Raeburn , which had often seemed like real company to him , looked remote and uninteresting .
He fancied something cold and almost unfriendly in their expression , as if they were staring through him or beyond him .
They cared nothing for his principles , his hopes , his disappointments , his successes ; they belonged to another world , in which he had no place .
At this he felt a vague resentment , a sense of discomfort that he could not have defined or explained .
He was used to being considered , respected , appreciated at his full value in every region , even in that of his own dreams .
Presently he rang for the butler , telling him to close the house and not to sit up , and walked with lagging steps into the long library , where the shaded lamps were burning .
His eye fell upon the low shelves full of costly books , but he had no desire to open them .
Even the carefully chosen pictures that hung above them seemed to have lost their attraction .
He paused for a moment before an idyll of Corot - a dance of nymphs around some forgotten altar in a vaporous glade - and looked at it curiously .
There was something rapturous and serene about the picture , a breath of spring - time in the misty trees , a harmony of joy in the dancing figures , that wakened in him a feeling of half - pleasure and half - envy .
It represented something that he had never known in his calculated , orderly life .
He was dimly mistrustful of it .
" It is certainly very beautiful , " he thought , " but it is distinctly pagan ; that altar is built to some heathen god .
It does not fit into the scheme of a Christian life .
I doubt whether it is consistent with the tone of my house .
I will sell it this winter .
It will bring three or four times what I paid for it .
That was a good purchase , a very good bargain . "
He dropped into the revolving chair before his big library table .
It was covered with pamphlets and reports of the various enterprises in which he was interested .
There was a pile of newspaper clippings in which his name was mentioned with praise for his sustaining power as a pillar of finance , for his judicious benevolence , for his support of wise and prudent reform movements , for his discretion in making permanent public gifts - " the Weightman Charities , " one very complaisant editor called them , as if they deserved classification as a distinct species .
He turned the papers over listlessly .
There was a description and a picture of the " Weightman Wing of the Hospital for Cripples , " of which he was president ; and an article on the new professor in the " Weightman Chair of Political Jurisprudence " in Jackson University , of which he was a trustee ; and an illustrated account of the opening of the " Weightman Grammar - School " at Dulwich - on - the - Sound , where he had his legal residence for purposes of taxation .
This last was perhaps the most carefully planned of all the Weightman Charities .
He desired to win the confidence and support of his rural neighbors .
It had pleased him much when the local newspaper had spoken of him as an ideal citizen and the logical candidate for the Governorship of the State ; but upon the whole it seemed to him wiser to keep out of active politics .
It would be easier and better to put Harold into the running , to have him sent to the Legislature from the Dulwich district , then to the national House , then to the Senate .
Why not ?
The Weightman interests were large enough to need a direct representative and guardian at Washington .
But to - night all these plans came back to him with dust upon them .
They were dry and crumbling like forsaken habitations .
The son upon whom his complacent ambition had rested had turned his back upon the mansion of his father 's hopes .
The break might not be final ; and in any event there would be much to live for ; the fortunes of the family would be secure .
But the zest of it all would be gone if John Weightman had to give up the assurance of perpetuating his name and his principles in his son .
It was a bitter disappointment , and he felt that he had not deserved it .
He rose from the chair and paced the room with leaden feet .
For the first time in his life his age was visibly upon him .
His head was heavy and hot , and the thoughts that rolled in it were confused and depressing .
Could it be that he had made a mistake in the principles of his existence ?
There was no argument in what Harold had said - it was almost childish - and yet it had shaken the elder man more deeply than he cared to show .
It held a silent attack which touched him more than open criticism .
Suppose the end of his life were nearer than he thought - the end must come some time - what if it were now ?
Had he not founded his house upon a rock ?
Had he not kept the Commandments ?
Was he not , " touching the law , blameless " ?
And beyond this , even if there were some faults in his character - and all men are sinners - yet he surely believed in the saving doctrines of religion - the forgiveness of sins , the resurrection of the body , the life everlasting .
Yes , that was the true source of comfort , after all .
He would read a bit in the Bible , as he did every night , and go to bed and to sleep .
He went back to his chair at the library table .
A strange weight of weariness rested upon him , but he opened the book at a familiar place , and his eyes fell upon the verse at the bottom of the page .
" Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth . "
That had been the text of the sermon a few weeks before .
Sleepily , heavily , he tried to fix his mind upon it and recall it .
What was it that Doctor Snodgrass had said ?
Ah , yes - that it was a mistake to pause here in reading the verse .
We must read on without a pause - Lay not up treasures upon earth where moth and rust do corrupt and where thieves break through and steal - that was the true doctrine .
We may have treasures upon earth , but they must not be put into unsafe places , but into safe places .
A most comforting doctrine !
He had always followed it .
Moths and rust and thieves had done no harm to his investments .
John Weightman 's drooping eyes turned to the next verse , at the top of the second column .
" But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven . "
Now what had the Doctor said about that ?
How was it to be understood - in what sense - treasures - in heaven ?
The book seemed to float away from him .
The light vanished .
He wondered dimly if this could be Death , coming so suddenly , so quietly , so irresistibly .
He struggled for a moment to hold himself up , and then sank slowly forward upon the table .
His head rested upon his folded hands .
He slipped into the unknown .
How long afterward conscious life returned to him he did not know .
The blank might have been an hour or a century .
He knew only that something had happened in the interval .
What is was he could not tell .
He found great difficulty in catching the thread of his identity again .
He felt that he was himself ; but the trouble was to make his connections , to verify and place himself , to know who and where he was .
At last it grew clear .
John Weightman was sitting on a stone , not far from a road in a strange land .
The road was not a formal highway , fenced and graded .
It was more like a great travel - trace , worn by thousands of feet passing across the open country in the same direction .
Down in the valley , into which he could look , the road seemed to form itself gradually out of many minor paths ; little footways coming across the meadows , winding tracks following along beside the streams , faintly marked trails emerging from the woodlands .
But on the hillside the threads were more firmly woven into one clear band of travel , though there were still a few dim paths joining it here and there , as if persons had been climbing up the hill by other ways and had turned at last to seek the road .
From the edge of the hill , where John Weightman sat , he could see the travelers , in little groups or larger companies , gathering from time to time by the different paths , and making the ascent .
They were all clothed in white , and the form of their garments was strange to him ; it was like some old picture .
They passed him , group after group , talking quietly together or singing ; not moving in haste , but with a certain air of eagerness and joy as if they were glad to be on their way to an appointed place .
They did not stay to speak to him , but they looked at him often and spoke to one another as they looked ; and now and then one of them would smile and beckon him a friendly greeting , so that he felt they would like him to be with them .
There was quite an interval between the groups ; and he followed each of them with his eyes after it had passed , blanching the long ribbon of the road for a little transient space , rising and receding across the wide , billowy upland , among the rounded hillocks of aerial green and gold and lilac , until it came to the high horizon , and stood outlined for a moment , a tiny cloud of whiteness against the tender blue , before it vanished over the hill .
For a long time he sat there watching and wondering .
It was a very different world from that in which his mansion on the Avenue was built ; and it looked strange to him , but most real - as real as anything he had ever seen .
Presently he felt a strong desire to know what country it was and where the people were going .
He had a faint premonition of what it must be , but he wished to be sure .
So he rose from the stone where he was sitting , and came down through the short grass and the lavender flowers , toward a passing group of people .
One of them turned to meet him , and held out his hand .
It was an old man , under whose white beard and brows John Weightman thought he saw a suggestion of the face of the village doctor who had cared for him years ago , when he was a boy in the country .
" Welcome , " said the old man .
" Will you come with us ? "
" Where are you going ? "
" To the heavenly city , to see our mansions there . "
" And who are these with you ? "
" Strangers to me , until a little while ago ; I know them better now .
But you I have known for a long time , John Weightman .
Do n't you remember your old doctor ? "
" Yes , " he cried - " yes ; your voice has not changed at all .
I 'm glad indeed to see you , Doctor McLean , especially now .
All this seems very strange to me , almost oppressive .
I wonder if - but may I go with you , do you suppose ? "
" Surely , " answered the doctor , with his familiar smile ; " it will do you good .
And you also must have a mansion in the city waiting for you - a fine one , too - are you not looking forward to it ? "
" Yes , " replied the other , hesitating a moment ; " yes - I believe it must be so , although I had not expected to see it so soon .
But I will go with you , and we can talk by the way . "
The two men quickly caught up with the other people , and all went forward together along the road .
The doctor had little to tell of his experience , for it had been a plain , hard life , uneventfully spent for others , and the story of the village was very simple .
John Weightman 's adventures and triumphs would have made a far richer , more imposing history , full of contacts with the great events and personages of the time .
But somehow or other he did not care to speak much about it , walking on that wide heavenly moorland , under that tranquil , sunless arch of blue , in that free air of perfect peace , where the light was diffused without a shadow , as if the spirit of life in all things were luminous .
There was only one person besides the doctor in that little company whom John Weightman had known before - an old bookkeeper who had spent his life over a desk , carefully keeping accounts - a rusty , dull little man , patient and narrow , whose wife had been in the insane asylum for twenty years and whose only child was a crippled daughter , for whose comfort and happiness he had toiled and sacrificed himself without stint .
It was a surprise to find him here , as care - free and joyful as the rest .
The lives of others in the company were revealed in brief glimpses as they talked together - a mother , early widowed , who had kept her little flock of children together and labored through hard and heavy years to bring them up in purity and knowledge - a Sister of Charity who had devoted herself to the nursing of poor folk who were being eaten to death by cancer - a schoolmaster whose heart and life had been poured into his quiet work of training boys for a clean and thoughtful manhood - a medical missionary who had given up a brilliant career in science to take the charge of a hospital in darkest Africa - a beautiful woman with silver hair who had resigned her dreams of love and marriage to care for an invalid father , and after his death had made her life a long , steady search for ways of doing kindnesses to others - a poet who had walked among the crowded tenements of the great city , bringing cheer and comfort not only by his songs , but by his wise and patient works of practical aid - a paralyzed woman who had lain for thirty years upon her bed , helpless but not hopeless , succeeding by a miracle of courage in her single aim , never to complain , but always to impart a bit of joy and peace to every one who came near her .
All these , and other persons like them , people of little consideration in the world , but now seemingly all full of great contentment and an inward gladness that made their steps light , were in the company that passed along the road , talking together of things past and things to come , and singing now and then with clear voices from which the veil of age and sorrow was lifted .
John Weightman joined in some of the songs - which were familiar to him from their use in the church - at first with a touch of hesitation , and then more confidently .
For as they went on his sense of strangeness and fear at his new experience diminished , and his thoughts began to take on their habitual assurance and complacency .
Were not these people going to the Celestial City ?
And was not he in his right place among them ?
He had always looked forward to this journey .
If they were sure , each one , of finding a mansion there , could not he be far more sure ?
His life had been more fruitful than theirs .
He had been a leader , a founder of new enterprises , a pillar of Church and State , a prince of the House of Israel .
Ten talents had been given him , and he had made them twenty .
His reward would be proportionate .
He was glad that his companions were going to find fit dwellings prepared for them ; but he thought also with a certain pleasure of the surprise that some of them would feel when they saw his appointed mansion .
So they came to the summit of the moorland and looked over into the world beyond .
It was a vast , green plain , softly rounded like a shallow vase , and circled with hills of amethyst .
A broad , shining river flowed through it , and many silver threads of water were woven across the green ; and there were borders of tall trees on the banks of the river , and orchards full of roses abloom along the little streams , and in the midst of all stood the city , white and wonderful and radiant .
When the travelers saw it they were filled with awe and joy .
They passed over the little streams and among the orchards quickly and silently , as if they feared to speak lest the city should vanish .
The wall of the city was very low , a child could see over it , for it was made only of precious stones , which are never large .
The gate of the city was not like a gate a all , for it was not barred with iron or wood , but only a single pearl , softly gleaming , marked the place where the wall ended and the entrance lay open .
A person stood there whose face was bright and grave , and whose robe was like the flower of the lily , not a woven fabric , but a living texture .
" Come in , " he said to the company of travelers ; " you are at your journey 's end , and your mansions are ready for you . "
John Weightman hesitated , for he was troubled by a doubt .
Suppose that he was not really , like his companions , at his journey 's end , but only transported for a little while out of the regular course of his life into this mysterious experience ?
Suppose that , after all , he had not really passed through the door of death , like these others , but only through the door of dreams , and was walking in a vision , a living man among the blessed dead .
Would it be right for him to go with them into the heavenly city ?
Would it not be a deception , a desecration , a deep and unforgivable offense ?
The strange , confusing question had no reason in it , as he very well knew ; for if he was dreaming , then it was all a dream ; but if his companions were real , then he also was with them in reality , and if they had died then he must have died too .
Yet he could not rid his mind of the sense that there was a difference between them and him , and it made him afraid to go on .
But , as he paused and turned , the Keeper of the Gate looked straight and deep into his eyes , and beckoned to him .
Then he knew that it was not only right but necessary that he should enter .
They passed from street to street among fair and spacious dwellings , set in amaranthine gardens , and adorned with an infinitely varied beauty of divine simplicity .
The mansions differed in size , in shape , in charm : each one seemed to have its own personal look of loveliness ; yet all were alike in fitness to their place , in harmony with one another , in the addition which each made to the singular and tranquil splendor of the city .
As the little company came , one by one , to the mansions which were prepared for them , and their Guide beckoned to the happy inhabitant to enter in and take possession , there was a soft murmur of joy , half wonder and half recognition ; as if the new and immortal dwelling were crowned with the beauty of surprise , lovelier and nobler than all the dreams of it had been ; and yet also as if it were touched with the beauty of the familiar , the remembered , the long - loved .
One after another the travelers were led to their own mansions , and went in gladly ; and from within , through the open doorways came sweet voices of welcome , and low laughter , and song .
At last there was no one left with the Guide but the two old friends , Doctor McLean and John Weightman .
They were standing in front of one of the largest and fairest of the houses , whose garden glowed softly with radiant flowers .
The Guide laid his hand upon the doctor 's shoulder .
" This is for you , " he said .
" Go in ; there is no more pain here , no more death , nor sorrow , nor tears ; for your old enemies are all conquered .
But all the good that you have done for others , all the help that you have given , all the comfort that you have brought , all the strength and love that you have bestowed upon the suffering , are here ; for we have built them all into this mansion for you . "
The good man 's face was lighted with a still joy .
He clasped his old friend 's hand closely , and whispered : " How wonderful it is !
Go on , you will come to your mansion next , it is not far away , and we shall see each other again soon , very soon . "
So he went through the garden , and into the music within .
The Keeper of the Gate turned to John Weightman with level , quiet , searching eyes .
Then he asked , gravely : " Where do you wish me to lead you now ? "
" To see my own mansion , " answered the man , with half - concealed excitement .
" Is there not one here for me ?
You may not let me enter it yet , perhaps , for I must confess to you that I am only - " " I know , " said the Keeper of the Gate - " I know it all .
You are John Weightman . "
" Yes , " said the man , more firmly than he had spoken at first , for it gratified him that his name was known .
" Yes , I am John Weightman , Senior Warden of St. Petronius ' Church .
I wish very much to see my mansion here , if only for a moment .
I believe that you have one for me .
Will you take me to it ? "
The Keeper of the Gate drew a little book from the breast of his robe and turned over the pages .
" Certainly , " he said , with a curious look at the man , " your name is here ; and you shall see your mansion if you will follow me . "
It seemed as if they must have walked miles and miles , through the vast city , passing street after street of houses larger and smaller , of gardens richer and poorer , but all full of beauty and delight .
They came into a kind of suburb , where there were many small cottages , with plots of flowers , very lowly , but bright and fragrant .
Finally they reached an open field , bare and lonely - looking .
There were two or three little bushes in it , without flowers , and the grass was sparse and thin .
In the center of the field was a tiny hut , hardly big enough for a shepherd 's shelter .
It looked as if it had been built of discarded things , scraps and fragments of other buildings , put together with care and pains , by some one who had tried to make the most of cast - off material .
There was something pitiful and shamefaced about the hut .
It shrank and drooped and faded in its barren field , and seemed to cling only by sufferance to the edge of the splendid city .
" This , " said the Keeper of the Gate , standing still and speaking with a low , distinct voice - " this is your mansion , John Weightman . "
An almost intolerable shock of grieved wonder and indignation choked the man for a moment so that he could not say a word .
Then he turned his face away from the poor little hut and began to remonstrate eagerly with his companion .
" Surely , sir , " he stammered , " you must be in error about this .
There is something wrong - some other John Weightman - a confusion of names - the book must be mistaken . "
" There is no mistake , " said the Keeper of the Gate , very calmly ; " here is your name , the record of your title and your possessions in this place . "
" But how could such a house be prepared for me , " cried the man , with a resentful tremor in his voice - " for me , after my long and faithful service ?
Is this a suitable mansion for one so well known and devoted ?
Why is it so pitifully small and mean ?
Why have you not built it large and fair , like the others ? "
" That is all the material you sent us . "
" What ! "
" We have used all the material that you sent us , " repeated the Keeper of the Gate .
" Now I know that you are mistaken , " cried the man , with growing earnestness , " for all my life long I have been doing things that must have supplied you with material .
Have you not heard that I have built a school - house ; the wing of a hospital ; two - yes , three - small churches , and the greater part of a large one , the spire of St. Petro - " The Keeper of the Gate lifted his hand .
" Wait , " he said ; " we know all these things .
They were not ill done .
But they were all marked and used as foundation for the name and mansion of John Weightman in the world .
Did you not plan them for that ? "
" Yes , " answered the man , confused and taken aback , " I confess that I thought often of them in that way .
Perhaps my heart was set upon that too much .
But there are other things - my endowment for the college - my steady and liberal contributions to all the established charities - my support of every respectable - " " Wait , " said the Keeper of the Gate again .
" Were not all these carefully recorded on earth where they would add to your credit ?
They were not foolishly done .
Verily , you have had your reward for them .
Would you be paid twice ? "
" No , " cried the man , with deepening dismay , " I dare not claim that .
I acknowledge that I considered my own interest too much .
But surely not altogether .
You have said that these things were not foolishly done .
They accomplished some good in the world .
Does not that count for something ? "
" Yes , " answered he Keeper of the Gate , " it counts in the world - where you counted it .
But it does not belong to you here .
We have saved and used everything that you sent us .
This is the mansion prepared for you . "
As he spoke , his look grew deeper and more searching , like a flame of fire .
John Weightman could not endure it .
It seemed to strip him naked and wither him .
He sank to the ground under a crushing weight of shame , covering his eyes with his hands and cowering face downward upon the stones .
Dimly through the trouble of his mind he felt their hardness and coldness .
" Tell me , then , " he cried , brokenly , " since my life has been so little worth , how came I here at all ? "
" Through the mercy of the King " - the answer was like the soft tolling of a bell .
" And how have I earned it ? "
he murmured .
" It is never earned ; it is only given , " came the clear , low reply .
" But how have I failed so wretchedly , " he asked , " in all the purpose of my life ?
What could I have done better ?
What is it that counts here ? "
" Only that which is truly given , " answered the bell - like voice .
" Only that good which is done for the love of doing it .
Only those plans in which the welfare of others is the master thought .
Only those labors in which the sacrifice is greater than the reward .
Only those gifts in which the giver forgets himself . "
The man lay silent .
A great weakness , an unspeakable despondency and humiliation were upon him .
But the face of the Keeper of the Gate was infinitely tender as he bent over him .
" Think again , John Weightman .
Has there been nothing like that in your life ? "
" Nothing , " he sighed .
" If there ever were such things , it must have been long ago - they were all crowded out - I have forgotten them . "
There was an ineffable smile on the face of the Keeper of the Gate , and his hand made the sign of the cross over the bowed head as he spoke gently : " These are the things that the King never forgets ; and because there were a few of them in your life , you have a little place here . "
The sense of coldness and hardness under John Weightman 's hands grew sharper and more distinct .
The feeling of bodily weariness and lassitude weighed upon him , but there was a calm , almost a lightness , in his heart as he listened to the fading vibrations of the silvery bell - tones .
The chimney clock on the mantel had just ended the last stroke of seven as he lifted his head from the table .
Thin , pale strips of the city morning were falling into the room through the narrow partings of the heavy curtains .
What was it that had happened to him ?
Had he been ill ?
Had he died and come to life again ?
Or had he only slept , and had his soul gone visiting in dreams ?
He sat for some time , motionless , not lost , but finding himself in thought .
Then he took a narrow book from the table drawer , wrote a check , and tore it out .
He went slowly up the stairs , knocked very softly at his son 's door , and , hearing no answer , entered without noise .
Harold was asleep , his bare arm thrown above his head , and his eager face relaxed in peace .
His father looked at him a moment with strangely shining eyes , and then tiptoed quietly to the writing - desk , found a pencil and a sheet of paper , and wrote rapidly : " My dear boy , here is what you asked me for ; do what you like with it , and ask for more if you need it .
If you are still thinking of that work with Grenfell , we 'll talk it over to - day after church .
I want to know your heart better ; and if I have made mistakes - " A slight noise made him turn his head .
Harold was sitting up in bed with wide - open eyes .
" Father ! "
he cried , " is that you ? "
" Yes , my son , " answered John Weightman ; " I 've come back - I mean I 've come up - no , I mean come in - well , here I am , and God give us a good Christmas together . "
We gave this story to a very competent , and very pretty gal artist .
We said , " Read this carefully , dream on it , and come up with an illustration . "
A week later , she returned with the finished drawing .
" The hero , " she said .
We did a double take .
" Hey !
That 's not the hero . "
She looked us straight in the eye .
" Can you prove it ? "
She had us .
We could n't , and she left hurriedly to go home and cook dinner for her family .
And what were they having ?
Frog legs - what else ?
They were in the garden .
" Now , Zoe , " said Zenia Hawkins to her nine - year - old daughter , " quit fluttering around , and papa will tell you a story . "
Zoe settled down in the hammock .
" A true story , papa ? "
" It all happened exactly like I 'm going to tell you , " said Drake Hawkins , pinching Zoe 's rosy cheek .
" Now : two thousand and eleven years ago in 1985 , figuring by the earthly calendar of that time , a tribe of beings from the Dog - star Sirius invaded the earth . "
" And what did these beings look like , father ? "
" Like humans in many , many respects .
They each had two arms , two legs and all the other organs that humans are endowed with . "
" Was n't there any difference at all between the Star - beings and the humans , papa ? "
" There was .
The newcomers , each and all , had a pair of wings covered with green feathers growing from their shoulders , and long , purple tails . "
" How many of these beings were there , father ? "
" Exactly three million and forty - one male adults and three female adults .
These creatures first appeared on Earth on the island of Sardinia .
In five weeks ' time they were the masters of the entire globe . "
" Did n't the Earth - lings fight back , papa ? "
" The humans warred against the invaders , using bullets , ordinary bombs , super - atom bombs and gases . "
[ Illustration : Illustrator : A.
Lake ] " What were those things like , father ? "
" Oh , they 've passed out of existence long ago .
' Ammunition ' they were called .
The humans fought each other with such things . "
" And not with ideas , like we do now , father ? "
" No , with guns , just like I told you .
But the invaders were immune to the ammunition . "
" What does ' immune ' mean ? "
" Proof against harm .
Then the humans tried germs and bacteria against the star - beings . "
" What were those things ? "
" Tiny , tiny bugs that the humans tried to inject into the bodies of the invaders to make them sicken and die .
But the bugs had no effect at all on the star - beings . "
" Go on , papa .
These beings over - ran all Earth .
Go on from there . "
" You must know , these newcomers were vastly more intelligent than the Earth - lings .
In fact , the invaders were the greatest mathematicians in the System . "
" What 's the System ?
And what does mathematician mean ? "
" The Milky Way .
A mathematician is one who is good at figuring , weighing , measuring , clever with numbers . "
" Then , father , the invaders killed off all the Earth - lings ? "
" Not all .
They killed many , but many others were enslaved .
Just as the humans had used horses and cattle , the newcomers so used the humans .
They made workers out of some , others they slaughtered for food . "
" Papa , what sort of language did these Star - beings talk ? "
" A very simple language , but the humans were never able to master it .
So , the invaders , being so much smarter , mastered all the languages of the globe . "
" What did the Earth - lings call the invaders , father ? "
" ' An - vils ' .
Half angels , half devils . "
" Then , papa , everything was peaceful on Earth after the An - vils enslaved the humans ? "
" For a little while .
Then , some of the most daring of the humans , led by a man named Knowall , escaped into the interior of Greenland .
This Knowall was a psychiatrist , the foremost on Earth . "
" What 's a psychiatrist ? "
" A dealer in ideas . "
" Then , he was very rich ? "
" He 'd been the richest human on Earth .
After some profound thought , Knowall figured a way to rid the earth of the An - vils . "
" How , papa ? "
" He perfected a method , called the Knowall - Hughes , Ilinski technique , of imbuing these An - vils with human emotions . "
" What does ' imbuing ' mean ? "
" He filled them full of and made them aware of . "
Zenia interrupted , " Are n't you talking a bit above the child 's understanding , Drake ? "
" No , mama , " said Zoe .
" I understand what papa explained .
Now , do n't interrupt . "
" So , Knowall , " continued Drake , " filled the An - vils with human feelings such as Love , Hate , Ambition , Jealousy , Malice , Envy , Despair , Hope , Fear , Shame and so on .
Very soon the An - vils were acting like humans , and in ten days , terrible civil wars wiped out the An - vils ' population by two - thirds . "
" Then , papa , the An - vils finally killed off each other ? "
" Almost , until among them a being named Zalibar , full of saintliness and persuasion , preached the brotherhood of all An - vils .
The invaders , quickly converted , quit their quarrels , and the Earth - lings were even more enslaved . "
" Oh , papa , were n't Knowall and his followers in Greenland awfully sad the way things had turned out ? "
" For a while .
Then Knowall came up with the final pay - off . "
" Is that slang , papa ?
Pay - off ? "
" Yes .
The coup - de - grace .
The ace in the hole that he 'd saved , if all else failed . "
" I understand , papa .
The idea that would out - trump anything the other side had to offer .
What was it , father ?
What did they have ? "
" Knowall imbued the An - vils with nostalgia . "
" What is nostalgia ? "
" Home sickness . "
" Oh , papa , was n't Knowall smart ?
That meant , the An - vils were all filled with the desire to fly back to the star from where they had started . "
" Exactly .
So , one day , all the An - vils , an immense army , flapping their great green wings , assembled in the Black Hills of North America , and , at a given signal , they all rose up from Earth and all the humans chanted , ' Glory , glory , the day of our deliverance ! ' "
" So then , father , all the An - vils flew away from Earth ? "
" Not all .
There were two child An - vils , one male and one female , aged two years , who had been born on Earth , and they started off with all the other An - vils and flew up into the sky .
But when they reached the upper limits of the strato - sphere , they hesitated , turned tail and fluttered back to Earth where they had been born .
Their names were Zizzo and Zizza . "
" And what happened to Zizzo and Zizza , papa ? "
" Well , like all the An - vils , they were great mathematicians .
So , they multiplied . "
" Oh , papa , " laughed Zoe , flapping her wings excitedly , " that was a very nice story ! "
Heading by Jon Arfstrom By Frank Belknap Long Jimmy watched the Natchez Belle draw near , a shining eagerness in his stare .
He stood on the deck of the shantyboat , his toes sticking out of his socks , his heart knocking against his ribs .
Straight down the river the big packet boat came , purpling the water with its shadow , its smokestacks belching soot .
Jimmy had a wild talent for collecting things .
He knew exactly how to infuriate the captains without sticking out his neck .
Up and down the Father of Waters , from the bayous of Louisiana to the Great Sandy other little shantyboat boys envied Jimmy and tried hard to imitate him .
But Jimmy had a very special gift , a genius for pantomime .
He 'd wait until there was a glimmer of red flame on the river and small objects stood out with a startling clarity .
Then he 'd go into his act .
Nothing upset the captains quite so much as Jimmy 's habit of holding a big , croaking bullfrog up by its legs as the riverboats went steaming past .
It was a surefire way of reminding the captains that men and frogs were brothers under the skin .
The puffed - out throat of the frog told the captains exactly what Jimmy thought of their cheek .
Jimmy refrained from making faces , or sticking out his tongue at the grinning roustabouts .
It was the frog that did the trick .
In the still dawn things came sailing Jimmy 's way , hurled by captains with a twinkle of repressed merriment dancing in eyes that were kindlier and more tolerant than Jimmy dreamed .
Just because shantyboat folk had no right to insult the riverboats Jimmy had collected forty empty tobacco tins , a down - at - heels shoe , a Sears Roebuck catalogue and - more rolled up newspapers than Jimmy could ever read .
Jimmy could read , of course .
No matter how badly Uncle Al needed a new pair of shoes , Jimmy 's education came first .
So Jimmy had spent six winters ashore in a first - class grammar school , his books paid for out of Uncle Al 's " New Orleans " money .
Uncle Al , blowing on a vinegar jug and making sweet music , the holes in his socks much bigger than the holes in Jimmy 's socks .
Uncle Al shaking his head and saying sadly , " Some day , young fella , I ai n't gon na sit here harmonizing .
No siree !
I 'm gon na buy myself a brand new store suit , trade in this here jig jug for a big round banjo , and hie myself off to the Mardi Gras .
Ai n't too old thataway to git a little fun out of life , young fella ! "
Poor old Uncle Al .
The money he 'd saved up for the Mardi Gras never seemed to stretch far enough .
There was enough kindness in him to stretch like a rainbow over the bayous and the river forests of sweet , rustling pine for as far as the eye could see .
Enough kindness to wrap all of Jimmy 's life in a glow , and the life of Jimmy 's sister as well .
Jimmy 's parents had died of winter pneumonia too soon to appreciate Uncle Al .
But up and down the river everyone knew that Uncle Al was a great man .
Enemies ?
Well , sure , all great men made enemies , did n't they ?
The Harmon brothers were downright sinful about carrying their feuding meanness right up to the doorstep of Uncle Al , if it could be said that a man living in a shantyboat had a doorstep .
Uncle Al made big catches and the Harmon brothers never seemed to have any luck .
So , long before Jimmy was old enough to understand how corrosive envy could be the Harmon brothers had started feuding with Uncle Al .
" Jimmy , here comes the Natchez Belle !
Uncle Al says for you to get him a newspaper .
The newspaper you got him yesterday he could n't read no - ways .
It was soaking wet ! "
Jimmy turned to glower at his sister .
Up and down the river Pigtail Anne was known as a tomboy , but she was n't - no - ways .
She was Jimmy 's little sister .
That meant Jimmy was the man in the family , and wore the pants , and nothing Pigtail said or did could change that for one minute .
" Do n't yell at me ! "
Jimmy complained .
" How can I get Captain Simmons mad if you get me mad first ?
Have a heart , will you ? "
But Pigtail Anne refused to budge .
Even when the Natchez Belle loomed so close to the shantyboat that it blotted out the sky she continued to crowd her brother , preventing him from holding up the frog and making Captain Simmons squirm .
But Jimmy got the newspaper anyway .
Captain Simmons had a keen insight into tomboy psychology , and from the bridge of the Natchez Belle he could see that Pigtail was making life miserable for Jimmy .
True - Jimmy had no respect for packet boats and deserved a good trouncing .
But what a scrapper the lad was !
Never let it be said that in a struggle between the sexes the men of the river did not stand shoulder to shoulder .
The paper came sailing over the shining brown water like a white - bellied buffalo cat shot from a sling .
Pigtail grabbed it before Jimmy could give her a shove .
Calmly she unwrapped it , her chin tilted in bellicose defiance .
As the Natchez Belle dwindled around a lazy , cypress - shadowed bend Pigtail Anne became a superior being , wrapped in a cosmopolitan aura .
A wide - eyed little girl on a swaying deck , the great outside world rushing straight toward her from all directions .
Pigtail could take that world in her stride .
She liked the fashion page best , but she was not above clicking her tongue at everything in the paper .
" Kidnap plot linked to airliner crash killing fifty , " she read .
" Red Sox blank Yanks !
Congress sits today , vowing vengeance !
Million dollar heiress elopes with a clerk !
Court lets dog pick owner !
Girl of eight kills her brother in accidental shooting ! "
" I ought to push your face right down in the mud , " Jimmy muttered .
" Do n't you dare !
I 've a right to see what 's going on in the world ! "
" You said the paper was for Uncle Al ! "
" It is - when I get finished with it . "
Jimmy started to take hold of his sister 's wrist and pry the paper from her clasp .
Only started - for as Pigtail wriggled back sunlight fell on a shadowed part of the paper which drew Jimmy 's gaze as sunlight draws dew .
Exciting was n't the word for the headline .
It seemed to blaze out of the page at Jimmy as he stared , his chin nudging Pigtail 's shoulder .
NEW FLYING MONSTER REPORTED BLAZING GULF STATE SKIES Jimmy snatched the paper and backed away from Pigtail , his eyes glued to the headline .
He was kind to his sister , however .
He read the news item aloud , if an account so startling could be called an item .
To Jimmy it seemed more like a dazzling burst of light in the sky .
" A New Orleans resident reported today that he saw a big bright object ' roundish like a disk ' flying north , against the wind .
' It was all lighted up from inside ! '
the observer stated .
' As far as I could tell there were no signs of life aboard the thing .
It was much bigger than any of the flying saucers previously reported ! ' "
" People keep seeing them ! "
Jimmy muttered , after a pause .
" Nobody knows where they come from !
Saucers flying through the sky , high up at night .
In the daytime , too !
Maybe we 're being watched , Pigtail ! "
" Watched ?
Jimmy , what do you mean ?
What you talking about ? "
Jimmy stared at his sister , the paper jiggling in his clasp .
" It 's way over your head , Pigtail ! "
he said sympathetically .
" I 'll prove it !
What 's a planet ? "
" A star in the sky , you dope ! "
Pigtail almost screamed .
" Wait'll Uncle Al hears what a meanie you are .
If I was n't your sister you would n't dare grab a paper that does n't belong to you . "
Jimmy refused to be enraged .
" A planet 's not a star , Pigtail , " he said patiently .
" A star 's a big ball of fire like the sun .
A planet is small and cool , like the Earth .
Some of the planets may even have people on them .
Not people like us , but people all the same .
Maybe we 're just frogs to them ! "
" You 're crazy , Jimmy !
Crazy , crazy , you hear ? "
Jimmy started to reply , then shut his mouth tight .
Big waves were nothing new in the wake of steamboats , but the shantyboat was n't just riding a swell .
It was swaying and rocking like a floating barrel in the kind of blow Shantyboaters dreaded worse than the thought of dying .
Jimmy knew that a big blow could come up fast .
Straight down from the sky in gusts , from all directions , banging against the boat like a drunken roustabout , slamming doors , tearing away mooring planks .
The river could rise fast too .
Under the lashing of a hurricane blowing up from the gulf the river could lift a shantyboat right out of the water , and smash it to smithereens against a tree .
But now the blow was coming from just one part of the sky .
A funnel of wind was churning the river into a white froth and raising big swells directly offshore .
But the river was n't rising and the sun was shining in a clear sky .
Jimmy knew a dangerous floodwater storm when he saw one .
The sky had to be dark with rain , and you had to feel scared , in fear of drowning .
Jimmy was scared , all right .
That part of it rang true .
But a hollow , sick feeling in his chest could n't mean anything by itself , he told himself fiercely .
Pigtail Anne saw the disk before Jimmy did .
She screamed and pointed skyward , her twin braids standing straight out in the wind like the ropes on a bale of cotton , when smokestacks collapse and a savage howling sends the river ghosts scurrying for cover .
Straight down out of the sky the disk swooped , a huge , spinning shape as flat as a buckwheat cake swimming in a golden haze of butterfat .
But the disk did n't remind Jimmy of a buckwheat cake .
It made him think instead of a slowly turning wheel in the pilot house of a rotting old riverboat , a big , ghostly wheel manned by a steersman a century dead , his eye sockets filled with flickering swamp lights .
It made Jimmy want to run and hide .
Almost it made him want to cling to his sister , content to let her wear the pants if only he could be spared the horror .
For there was something so chilling about the downsweeping disk that Jimmy 's heart began leaping like a vinegar jug bobbing about in the wake of a capsizing fishboat .
Lower and lower the disk swept , trailing plumes of white smoke , lashing the water with a fearful blow .
Straight down over the cypress wilderness that fringed the opposite bank , and then out across the river with a long - drawn whistling sound , louder than the air - sucking death gasps of a thousand buffalo cats .
Jimmy did n't see the disk strike the shining broad shoulders of the Father of Waters , for the bend around which the Natchez Belle had steamed so proudly hid the sky monster from view .
But Jimmy did see the waterspout , spiraling skyward like the atom bomb explosion he 'd goggled at in the pages of an old Life magazine , all smudged now with oily thumbprints .
Just a roaring for an instant - and a big white mushroom shooting straight up into the sky .
Then , slowly , the mushroom decayed and fell back , and an awful stillness settled down over the river .
The stillness was broken by a shrill cry from Pigtail Anne .
" It was a flying saucer !
Jimmy , we 've seen one !
We 've seen one !
We 've - " " Shut your mouth , Pigtail ! "
Jimmy shaded his eyes and stared out across the river , his chest a throbbing ache .
He was still staring when a door creaked behind him .
Jimmy trembled .
A tingling fear went through him , for he found it hard to realize that the disk had swept around the bend out of sight .
To his overheated imagination it continued to fill all of the sky above him , overshadowing the shantyboat , making every sound a threat .
Sucking the still air deep into his lungs , Jimmy swung about .
Uncle Al was standing on the deck in a little pool of sunlight , his gaunt , hollow - cheeked face set in harsh lines .
Uncle Al was shading his eyes too .
But he was staring up the river , not down .
" Trouble , young fella , " he grunted .
" Sure as I 'm a - standin ' here .
A barrelful o ' trouble - headin ' straight for us ! "
Jimmy gulped and gestured wildly toward the bend .
" It came down over there , Uncle Al ! "
he got out .
" Pigtail saw it , too !
A big , flying - " " The Harmons are a - comin ' , young fella , " Uncle Al drawled , silencing Jimmy with a wave of his hand .
" Yesterday I rowed over a Harmon jug line without meanin ' to .
Now Jed Harmon 's tellin ' everybody I stole his fish ! "
Very calmly Uncle Al cut himself a slice of the strongest tobacco on the river and packed it carefully in his pipe , wadding it down with his thumb .
He started to put the pipe between his teeth , then thought better of it .
" I can bone - feel the Harmon boat a - comin ' , young fella , " he said , using the pipe to gesture with .
" Smooth and quiet over the river like a moccasin snake . "
Jimmy turned pale .
He forgot about the disk and the mushrooming water spout .
When he shut his eyes he saw only a red haze overhanging the river , and a shantyboat nosing out of the cypresses , its windows spitting death .
Jimmy knew that the Harmons had waited a long time for an excuse .
The Harmons were law - respecting river rats with sharp teeth .
Feuding was n't lawful , but murder could be made lawful by whittling down a lie until it looked as sharp as the truth .
The Harmon brothers would do their whittling down with double - barreled shotguns .
It was easy enough to make murder look like a lawful crime if you could point to a body covered by a blanket and say , " We caught him stealing our fish !
He was a - goin' to kill us - so we got him first . "
No one would think of lifting the blanket and asking Uncle Al about it .
A man lying stiff and still under a blanket could no more make himself heard than a river cat frozen in the ice .
" Git inside , young ' uns .
Here they come ! "
Jimmy 's heart skipped a beat .
Down the river in the sunlight a shantyboat was drifting .
Jimmy could see the Harmon brothers crouching on the deck , their faces livid with hate , sunlight glinting on their arm - cradled shotguns .
The Harmon brothers were not in the least alike .
Jed Harmon was tall and gaunt , his right cheek puckered by a knife scar , his cruel , thin - lipped mouth snagged by his teeth .
Joe Harmon was small and stout , a little round man with bushy eyebrows and the flabby face of a cottonmouth snake .
" Go inside , Pigtail , " Jimmy said , calmly .
" I 'm a - going to stay and fight ! "
Uncle Al grabbed Jimmy 's arm and swung him around .
" You heard what I said , young fella .
Now git ! "
" I want to stay here and fight with you , Uncle Al , " Jimmy said .
" Have you got a gun ?
Do you want to be blown apart , young fella ? "
" I 'm not scared , Uncle Al , " Jimmy pleaded .
" You might get wounded .
I know how to shoot straight , Uncle Al .
If you get hurt I 'll go right on fighting ! "
" No you wo n't , young fella !
Take Pigtail inside .
You hear me ?
You want me to take you across my knee and beat the livin ' stuffings out of you ? "
Silence .
Deep in his uncle 's face Jimmy saw an anger he could n't buck .
Grabbing Pigtail Anne by the arm , he propelled her across the deck and into the dismal front room of the shantyboat .
The instant he released her she glared at him and stamped her foot .
" If Uncle Al gets shot it 'll be your fault , " she said cruelly .
Then Pigtail 's anger really flared up .
" The Harmons would n't dare shoot us 'cause we 're children ! "
For an instant brief as a dropped heartbeat Jimmy stared at his sister with unconcealed admiration .
" You can be right smart when you 've got nothing else on your mind , Pigtail , " he said .
" If they kill me they 'll hang sure as shooting ! "
Jimmy was out in the sunlight again before Pigtail could make a grab for him .
Out on the deck and running along the deck toward Uncle Al .
He was still running when the first blast came .
It did n't sound like a shotgun blast .
The deck shook and a big swirl of smoke floated straight toward Jimmy , half blinding him and blotting Uncle Al from view .
When the smoke cleared Jimmy could see the Harmon shantyboat .
It was less than thirty feet away now , drifting straight past and rocking with the tide like a topheavy flatbarge .
On the deck Jed Harmon was crouching down , his gaunt face split in a triumphant smirk .
Beside him Joe Harmon stood quivering like a mound of jelly , a stick of dynamite in his hand , his flabby face looking almost gentle in the slanting sunlight .
There was a little square box at Jed Harmon 's feet .
As Joe pitched Jed reached into the box for another dynamite stick .
Jed was passing the sticks along to his brother , depending on wad dynamite to silence Uncle Al forever .
Wildly Jimmy told himself that the guns had been just a trick to mix Uncle Al up , and keep him from shooting until they had him where they wanted him .
Uncle Al was shooting now , his face as grim as death .
His big heavy gun was leaping about like mad , almost hurling him to the deck .
Jimmy saw the second dynamite stick spinning through the air , but he never saw it come down .
All he could see was the smoke and the shantyboat rocking , and another terrible splintering crash as he went plunging into the river from the end of a rising plank , a sob strangling in his throat .
Jimmy struggled up from the river with the long leg - thrusts of a terrified bullfrog , his head a throbbing ache .
As he swam shoreward he could see the cypresses on the opposite bank , dark against the sun , and something that looked like the roof of a house with water washing over it .
Then , with mud sucking at his heels , Jimmy was clinging to a slippery bank and staring out across the river , shading his eyes against the glare .
Jimmy thought , " I 'm dreaming !
I 'll wake up and see Uncle Joe blowing on a vinegar jug .
I 'll see Pigtail , too .
Uncle Al will be sitting on the deck , taking it easy ! "
But Uncle Al was n't sitting on the deck .
There was no deck for Uncle Al to sit upon .
Just the top of the shantyboat , sinking lower and lower , and Uncle Al swimming .
Uncle Al had his arm around Pigtail , and Jimmy could see Pigtail 's white face bobbing up and down as Uncle Al breasted the tide with his strong right arm .
Closer to the bend was the Harmon shantyboat .
The Harmons were using their shotguns now , blasting fiercely away at Uncle Al and Pigtail .
Jimmy could see the smoke curling up from the leaping guns and the water jumping up and down in little spurts all about Uncle Al .
There was an awful hollow agony in Jimmy 's chest as he stared , a fear that was partly a soundless screaming and partly a vision of Uncle Al sinking down through the dark water and turning it red .
It was strange , though .
Something was happening to Jimmy , nibbling away at the outer edges of the fear like a big , hungry river cat .
Making the fear seem less swollen and awful , shredding it away in little flakes .
There was a white core of anger in Jimmy which seemed suddenly to blaze up .
He shut his eyes tight .
In his mind 's gaze Jimmy saw himself holding the Harmon brothers up by their long , mottled legs .
The Harmon brothers were frogs .
Not friendly , good natured frogs like Uncle Al , but snake frogs .
Cottonmouth frogs .
All flannel red were their mouths , and they had long evil fangs which dripped poison in the sunlight .
But Jimmy was n't afraid of them no - ways .
Not any more .
He had too firm a grip on their legs .
" Do n't let anything happen to Uncle Al and Pigtail ! "
Jimmy whispered , as though he were talking to himself .
No - not exactly to himself .
To someone like himself , only larger .
Very close to Jimmy , but larger , more powerful .
" Catch them before they harm Uncle Al !
Hurry !
Hurry ! "
There was a strange lifting sensation in Jimmy 's chest now .
As though he could shake the river if he tried hard enough , tilt it , send it swirling in great thunderous white surges clear down to Lake Pontchartrain .
But Jimmy did n't want to tilt the river .
Not with Uncle Al on it and Pigtail , and all those people in New Orleans who would disappear right off the streets .
They were frogs too , maybe , but good frogs .
Not like the Harmon brothers .
Jimmy had a funny picture of himself much younger than he was .
Jimmy saw himself as a great husky baby , standing in the middle of the river and blowing on it with all his might .
The waves rose and rose , and Jimmy 's cheeks swelled out and the river kept getting angrier .
No - he must fight that .
" Save Uncle Al ! "
he whispered fiercely .
" Just save him - and Pigtail ! "
It began to happen the instant Jimmy opened his eyes .
Around the bend in the sunlight came a great spinning disk , wrapped in a fiery glow .
Straight toward the Harmon shantyboat the disk swept , water spurting up all about it , its bottom fifty feet wide .
There was no collision .
Only a brightness for one awful instant where the shantyboat was twisting and turning in the current , a brightness that outshone the rising sun .
Just like a camera flashbulb going off , but bigger , brighter .
So big and bright that Jimmy could see the faces of the Harmon brothers fifty times as large as life , shriveling and disappearing in a magnifying burst of flame high above the cypress trees .
Just as though a giant in the sky had trained a big burning glass on the Harmon brothers and whipped it back quick .
Whipped it straight up , so that the faces would grow huge before dissolving as a warning to all snakes .
There was an evil anguish in the dissolving faces which made Jimmy 's blood run cold .
Then the disk was alone in the middle of the river , spinning around and around , the shantyboat swallowed up .
And Uncle Al was still swimming , fearfully close to it .
The net came swirling out of the disk over Uncle Al like a great , dew - drenched gossamer web .
It enmeshed him as he swam , so gently that he hardly seemed to struggle or even to be aware of what was happening to him .
Pigtail did n't resist , either .
She simply stopped thrashing in Uncle Al 's arms , as though a great wonder had come upon her .
Slowly Uncle Al and Pigtail were drawn into the disk .
Jimmy could see Uncle Al reclining in the web , with Pigtail in the crook of his arm , his long , angular body as quiet as a butterfly in its deep winter sleep inside a swaying glass cocoon .
Uncle Al and Pigtail , being drawn together into the disk as Jimmy stared , a dull pounding in his chest .
After a moment the pounding subsided and a silence settled down over the river .
Jimmy sucked in his breath .
The voices began quietly , as though they had been waiting for a long time to speak to Jimmy deep inside his head , and did n't want to frighten him in any way .
" Take it easy , Jimmy !
Stay where you are .
We 're just going to have a friendly little talk with Uncle Al . "
" A t - talk ? "
Jimmy heard himself stammering .
" We knew we 'd find you where life flows simply and serenely , Jimmy .
Your parents took care of that before they left you with Uncle Al .
" You see , Jimmy , we wanted you to study the Earth people on a great , wide flowing river , far from the cruel , twisted places .
To grow up with them , Jimmy - and to understand them .
Especially the Uncle Als .
For Uncle Al is unspoiled , Jimmy .
If there 's any hope at all for Earth as we guide and watch it , that hope burns most brightly in the Uncle Als ! "
The voice paused , then went on quickly .
" You see , Jimmy , you 're not human in the same way that your sister is human - or Uncle Al .
But you 're still young enough to feel human , and we want you to feel human , Jimmy . "
" W - Who are you ? "
Jimmy gasped .
" We are the Shining Ones , Jimmy !
For wide wastes of years we have cruised Earth 's skies , almost unnoticed by the Earth people .
When darkness wraps the Earth in a great , spinning shroud we hide our ships close to the cities , and glide through the silent streets in search of our young .
You see , Jimmy , we must watch and protect the young of our race until sturdiness comes upon them , and they are ready for the Great Change . "
For an instant there was a strange , humming sound deep inside Jimmy 's head , like the drowsy murmur of bees in a dew - drenched clover patch .
Then the voice droned on .
" The Earth people are frightened by our ships now , for their cruel wars have put a great fear of death in their hearts .
They watch the skies with sharper eyes , and their minds have groped closer to the truth .
" To the Earth people our ships are no longer the fireballs of mysterious legend , haunted will - o ' - the - wisps , marsh flickerings and the even more illusive distortions of the sick in mind .
It is a long bold step from fireballs to flying saucers , Jimmy .
A day will come when the Earth people will be wise enough to put aside fear .
Then we can show ourselves to them as we really are , and help them openly . "
The voice seemed to take more complete possession of Jimmy 's thoughts then , growing louder and more eager , echoing through his mind with the persuasiveness of muted chimes .
" Jimmy , close your eyes tight .
We 're going to take you across wide gulfs of space to the bright and shining land of your birth . "
Jimmy obeyed .
It was a city , and yet it was n't like New York or Chicago or any of the other cities Jimmy had seen illustrations of in the newspapers and picture magazines .
The buildings were white and domed and shining , and they seemed to tower straight up into the sky .
There were streets , too , weaving in and out between the domes like rainbow - colored spider webs in a forest of mushrooms .
There were no people in the city , but down the aerial streets shining objects swirled with the swift easy gliding of flat stones skimming an edge of running water .
Then as Jimmy stared into the depths of the strange glow behind his eyelids the city dwindled and fell away , and he saw a huge circular disk looming in a wilderness of shadows .
Straight toward the disk a shining object moved , bearing aloft on filaments of flame a much smaller object that struggled and mewed and reached out little white arms .
Closer and closer the shining object came , until Jimmy could see that it was carrying a human infant that stared straight at Jimmy out of wide , dark eyes .
But before he could get a really good look at the shining object it pierced the shadows and passed into the disk .
There was a sudden , blinding burst of light , and the disk was gone .
Jimmy opened his eyes .
" You were once like that baby , Jimmy ! "
the voice said .
" You were carried by your parents into a waiting ship , and then out across wide gulfs of space to Earth .
" You see , Jimmy , our race was once entirely human .
But as we grew to maturity we left the warm little worlds where our infancy was spent , and boldly sought the stars , shedding our humanness as sunlight sheds the dew , or a bright , soaring moth of the night its ugly pupa case .
" We grew great and wise , Jimmy , but not quite wise enough to shed our human heritage of love and joy and heartbreak .
In our childhood we must return to the scenes of our past , to take root again in familiar soil , to grow in power and wisdom slowly and sturdily , like a seed dropped back into the loam which nourished the great flowering mother plant .
" Or like the eel of Earth 's seas , Jimmy , that must be spawned in the depths of the great cold ocean , and swim slowly back to the bright highlands and the shining rivers of Earth .
Young eels do not resemble their parents , Jimmy .
They 're white and thin and transparent and have to struggle hard to survive and grow up .
" Jimmy , you were planted here by your parents to grow wise and strong .
Deep in your mind you knew that we had come to seek you out , for we are all born human , and are bound one to another by that knowledge , and that secret trust .
" You knew that we would watch over you and see that no harm would come to you .
You called out to us , Jimmy , with all the strength of your mind and heart .
Your Uncle Al was in danger and you sensed our nearness .
" It was partly your knowledge that saved him , Jimmy .
But it took courage too , and a willingness to believe that you were more than human , and armed with the great proud strength and wisdom of the Shining Ones . "
The voice grew suddenly gentle , like a caressing wind .
" You 're not old enough yet to go home , Jimmy !
Or wise enough .
We 'll take you home when the time comes .
Now we just want to have a talk with Uncle Al , to find out how you 're getting along . "
Jimmy looked down into the river and then up into the sky .
Deep down under the dark , swirling water he could see life taking shape in a thousand forms .
Caddis flies building bright , shining new nests , and dragonfly nymphs crawling up toward the sunlight , and pollywogs growing sturdy hindlimbs to conquer the land .
But there were cottonmouths down there too , with death behind their fangs , and no love for the life that was crawling upward .
When Jimmy looked up into the sky he could see all the blazing stars of space , with cottonmouths on every planet of every sun .
Uncle Al was like a bright caddis fly building a fine new nest , thatched with kindness , denying himself bright little Mardi Gras pleasures so that Jimmy could go to school and grow wiser than Uncle Al .
" That 's right , Jimmy .
You 're growing up - we can see that !
Uncle Al says he told you to bide from the cottonmouths .
But you were ready to give your life for your sister and Uncle Al . "
" Shucks , it was nothing ! "
Jimmy heard himself protesting .
" Uncle Al does n't think so .
And neither do we ! "
A long silence while the river mists seemed to weave a bright cocoon of radiance about Jimmy clinging to the bank , and the great circular disk that had swallowed up Uncle Al .
Then the voices began again .
" No reason why Uncle Al should n't have a little fun out of life , Jimmy .
Gold 's easy to make and we 'll make some right now .
A big lump of gold in Uncle Al 's hand wo n't hurt him in any way . "
" Whenever he gets any spending money he gives it away ! "
Jimmy gulped .
" I know , Jimmy .
But he 'll listen to you .
Tell him you want to go to New Orleans , too ! "
Jimmy looked up quickly then .
In his heart was something of the wonder he 'd felt when he 'd seen his first riverboat and waited for he knew not what .
Something of the wonder that must have come to men seeking magic in the sky , the rainmakers of ancient tribes and of days long vanished .
Only to Jimmy the wonder came now with a white burst of remembrance and recognition .
It was as though he could sense something of himself in the two towering spheres that rose straight up out of the water behind the disk .
Still and white and beautiful they were , like bubbles floating on a rainbow sea with all the stars of space behind them .
Staring at them , Jimmy saw himself as he would be , and knew himself for what he was .
It was not a glory to be long endured .
" Now you must forget again , Jimmy !
Forget as Uncle Al will forget - until we come for you .
Be a little shantyboat boy !
You are safe on the wide bosom of the Father of Waters .
Your parents planted you in a rich and kindly loam , and in all the finite universes you will find no cosier nook , for life flows here with a diversity that is infinite and - Pigtail !
She gets on your nerves at times , does n't she , Jimmy ? "
" She sure does , " Jimmy admitted .
" Be patient with her , Jimmy .
She 's the only human sister you 'll ever have on Earth . "
" I - I 'll try ! "
Jimmy muttered .
Uncle Al and Pigtail came out of the disk in an amazingly simple way .
They just seemed to float out , in the glimmering web .
Then , suddenly , there was n't any disk on the river at all - just a dull flickering where the sky had opened like a great , blazing furnace to swallow it up .
" I was just swimmin ' along with Pigtail , not worryin ' too much , 'cause there 's no sense in worryin ' when death is starin ' you in the face , " Uncle Al muttered , a few minutes later .
Uncle Al sat on the riverbank beside Jimmy , staring down at his palm , his vision misted a little by a furious blinking .
" It 's gold , Uncle Al ! "
Pigtail shrilled .
" A big lump of solid gold - " " I just felt my hand get heavy and there it was , young fella , nestling there in my palm ! "
Jimmy did n't seem to be able to say anything .
" High school books do n't cost no more than grammar school books , young fella , " Uncle Al said , his face a sudden shining .
" Next winter you 'll be a - goin' to high school , sure as I 'm a - sittin ' here ! "
For a moment the sunlight seemed to blaze so brightly about Uncle Al that Jimmy could n't even see the holes in his socks .
Then Uncle Al made a wry face .
" Someday , young fella , when your books are all paid for , I 'm gon na buy myself a brand new store suit , and hie myself off to the Mardi Gras .
Ai n't too old thataway to git a little fun out of life , young fella ! "
I had entered , in an idle mood , the shop of one of those curiosity venders who are called marchands de bric - brac in that Parisian argot which is so perfectly unintelligible elsewhere in France .
You have doubtless glanced occasionally through the windows of some of these shops , which have become so numerous now that it is fashionable to buy antiquated furniture , and that every petty stockbroker thinks he must have his chambre au moyen ge .
There is one thing there which clings alike to the shop of the dealer in old iron , the ware - room of the tapestry maker , the laboratory of the chemist , and the studio of the painter : in all those gloomy dens where a furtive daylight filters in through the window - shutters the most manifestly ancient thing is dust .
The cobwebs are more authentic than the gimp laces , and the old pear - tree furniture on exhibition is actually younger than the mahogany which arrived but yesterday from America .
The warehouse of my bric - brac dealer was a veritable Capharnaum .
All ages and all nations seemed to have made their rendezvous there .
An Etruscan lamp of red clay stood upon a Boule cabinet , with ebony panels , brightly striped by lines of inlaid brass ; a duchess of the court of Louis xv .
nonchalantly extended her fawn - like feet under a massive table of the time of Louis xiii . , with heavy spiral supports of oak , and carven designs of chimeras and foliage intermingled .
Upon the denticulated shelves of several sideboards glittered immense Japanese dishes with red and blue designs relieved by gilded hatching , side by side with enamelled works by Bernard Palissy , representing serpents , frogs , and lizards in relief .
From disembowelled cabinets escaped cascades of silver - lustrous Chinese silks and waves of tinsel , which an oblique sunbeam shot through with luminous beads , while portraits of every era , in frames more or less tarnished , smiled through their yellow varnish .
The striped breastplate of a damascened suit of Milanese armour glittered in one corner ; loves and nymphs of porcelain , Chinese grotesques , vases of cladon and crackleware , Saxon and old Svres cups encumbered the shelves and nooks of the apartment .
The dealer followed me closely through the tortuous way contrived between the piles of furniture , warding off with his hand the hazardous sweep of my coat - skirts , watching my elbows with the uneasy attention of an antiquarian and a usurer .
It was a singular face , that of the merchant ; an immense skull , polished like a knee , and surrounded by a thin aureole of white hair , which brought out the clear salmon tint of his complexion all the more strikingly , lent him a false aspect of patriarchal bonhomie , counteracted , however , by the scintillation of two little yellow eyes which trembled in their orbits like two louis - d'or upon quicksilver .
The curve of his nose presented an aquiline silhouette , which suggested the Oriental or Jewish type .
His hands - thin , slender , full of nerves which projected like strings upon the finger - board of a violin , and armed with claws like those on the terminations of bats ' wings - shook with senile trembling ; but those convulsively agitated hands became firmer than steel pincers or lobsters ' claws when they lifted any precious article - an onyx cup , a Venetian glass , or a dish of Bohemian crystal .
This strange old man had an aspect so thoroughly rabbinical and cabalistic that he would have been burnt on the mere testimony of his face three centuries ago .
' Will you not buy something from me to - day , sir ?
Here is a Malay kreese with a blade undulating like flame .
Look at those grooves contrived for the blood to run along , those teeth set backward so as to tear out the entrails in withdrawing the weapon .
It is a fine character of ferocious arm , and will look well in your collection .
This two - handed sword is very beautiful .
It is the work of Josepe de la Hera ; and this colichemarde with its fenestrated guard - what a superb specimen of handicraft ! '
' No ; I have quite enough weapons and instruments of carnage .
I want a small figure , - something which will suit me as a paper - weight , for I can not endure those trumpery bronzes which the stationers sell , and which may be found on everybody 's desk . '
The old gnome foraged among his ancient wares , and finally arranged before me some antique bronzes , so - called at least ; fragments of malachite , little Hindoo or Chinese idols , a kind of poussah - toys in jade - stone , representing the incarnations of Brahma or Vishnoo , and wonderfully appropriate to the very undivine office of holding papers and letters in place .
I was hesitating between a porcelain dragon , all constellated with warts , its mouth formidable with bristling tusks and ranges of teeth , and an abominable little Mexican fetich , representing the god Vitziliputzili au naturel , when I caught sight of a charming foot , which I at first took for a fragment of some antique Venus .
It had those beautiful ruddy and tawny tints that lend to Florentine bronze that warm living look so much preferable to the gray - green aspect of common bronzes , which might easily be mistaken for statues in a state of putrefaction .
Satiny gleams played over its rounded forms , doubtless polished by the amorous kisses of twenty centuries , for it seemed a Corinthian bronze , a work of the best era of art , perhaps moulded by Lysippus himself .
' That foot will be my choice , ' said to the merchant , who regarded me with an ironical and saturnine air , and held out the object desired that I might examine it more fully .
I was surprised at its lightness .
It was not a foot of metal , but in sooth a foot of flesh , an embalmed foot , a mummy 's foot .
On examining it still more closely the very grain of the skin , and the almost imperceptible lines impressed upon it by the texture of the bandages , became perceptible .
The toes were slender and delicate , and terminated by perfectly formed nails , pure and transparent as agates .
The great toe , slightly separated from the rest , afforded a happy contrast , in the antique style , to the position of the other toes , and lent it an aerial lightness - the grace of a bird 's foot .
The sole , scarcely streaked by a few almost imperceptible cross lines , afforded evidence that it had never touched the bare ground , and had only come in contact with the finest matting of Nile rushes and the softest carpets of panther skin .
' Ha , ha , you want the foot of the Princess Hermonthis ! '
exclaimed the merchant , with a strange giggle , fixing his owlish eyes upon me .
' Ha , ha , ha !
For a paper - weight !
An original idea !
- artistic idea !
- Old Pharaoh would certainly have been surprised had some one told him that the foot of his adored daughter would be used for a paper - weight after he had had a mountain of granite hollowed out as a receptacle for the triple coffin , painted and gilded , covered with hieroglyphics and beautiful paintings of the Judgment of Souls , ' continued the queer little merchant , half audibly , as though talking to himself .
' How much will you charge me for this mummy fragment ? '
' Ah , the highest price I can get , for it is a superb piece .
If I had the match of it you could not have it for less than five hundred francs .
The daughter of a Pharaoh !
Nothing is more rare . '
' Assuredly that is not a common article , but still , how much do you want ?
In the first place let me warn you that all my wealth consists of just five louis .
I can buy anything that costs five louis , but nothing dearer .
You might search my vest pockets and most secret drawers without even finding one poor five - franc piece more . '
' Five louis for the foot of the Princess Hermonthis !
That is very little , very little indeed .
' Tis an authentic foot , ' muttered the merchant , shaking his head , and imparting a peculiar rotary motion to his eyes .
' Well , take it , and I will give you the bandages into the bargain , ' he added , wrapping the foot in an ancient damask rag .
' Very fine ?
Real damask - Indian damask which has never been redyed .
It is strong , and yet it is soft , ' he mumbled , stroking the frayed tissue with his fingers , through the trade - acquired habit which moved him to praise even an object of such little value that he himself deemed it only worth the giving away .
He poured the gold coins into a sort of mediaeval alms - purse hanging at his belt , repeating : ' The foot of the Princess Hermonthis to be used for a paper - weight ! '
Then turning his phosphorescent eyes upon me , he exclaimed in a voice strident as the crying of a cat which has swallowed a fish - bone : ' Old Pharaoh will not be well pleased .
He loved his daughter , the dear man ! '
' You speak as if you were a contemporary of his .
You are old enough , goodness knows !
but you do not date back to the Pyramids of Egypt , ' I answered , laughingly , from the threshold .
I went home , delighted with my acquisition .
With the idea of putting it to profitable use as soon as possible , I placed the foot of the divine Princess Hermonthis upon a heap of papers scribbled over with verses , in themselves an undecipherable mosaic work of erasures ; articles freshly begun ; letters forgotten , and posted in the table drawer instead of the letter - box , an error to which absent - minded people are peculiarly liable .
The effect was charming , bizarre , and romantic .
Well satisfied with this embellishment , I went out with the gravity and pride becoming one who feels that he has the ineffable advantage over all the passers - by whom he elbows , of possessing a piece of the Princess Hermonthis , daughter of Pharaoh .
I looked upon all who did not possess , like myself , a paper - weight so authentically Egyptian as very ridiculous people , and it seemed to me that the proper occupation of every sensible man should consist in the mere fact of having a mummy 's foot upon his desk .
Happily I met some friends , whose presence distracted me in my infatuation with this new acquisition .
I went to dinner with them , for I could not very well have dined with myself .
When I came back that evening , with my brain slightly confused by a few glasses of wine , a vague whiff of Oriental perfume delicately titillated my olfactory nerves .
The heat of the room had warmed the natron , bitumen , and myrrh in which the paraschistes , who cut open the bodies of the dead , had bathed the corpse of the princess .
It was a perfume at once sweet and penetrating , a perfume that four thousand years had not been able to dissipate .
The Dream of Egypt was Eternity .
Her odours have the solidity of granite and endure as long .
I soon drank deeply from the black cup of sleep .
For a few hours all remained opaque to me .
Oblivion and nothingness inundated me with their sombre waves .
Yet light gradually dawned upon the darkness of my mind .
Dreams commenced to touch me softly in their silent flight .
The eyes of my soul were opened , and I beheld my chamber as it actually was .
I might have believed myself awake but for a vague consciousness which assured me that I slept , and that something fantastic was about to take place .
The odour of the myrrh had augmented in intensity , and I felt a slight headache , which I very naturally attributed to several glasses of champagne that we had drunk to the unknown gods and our future fortunes .
I peered through my room with a feeling of expectation which I saw nothing to justify .
Every article of furniture was in its proper place .
The lamp , softly shaded by its globe of ground crystal , burned upon its bracket ; the water - colour sketches shone under their Bohemian glass ; the curtains hung down languidly ; everything wore an aspect of tranquil slumber .
After a few moments , however , all this calm interior appeared to become disturbed .
The woodwork cracked stealthily , the ash - covered log suddenly emitted a jet of blue flame , and the discs of the pateras seemed like great metallic eyes , watching , like myself , for the things which were about to happen .
My eyes accidentally fell upon the desk where I had placed the foot of the Princess Hermonthis .
Instead of remaining quiet , as behoved a foot which had been embalmed for four thousand years , it commenced to act in a nervous manner , contracted itself , and leaped over the papers like a startled frog .
One would have imagined that it had suddenly been brought into contact with a galvanic battery .
I could distinctly hear the dry sound made by its little heel , hard as the hoof of a gazelle .
I became rather discontented with my acquisition , inasmuch as I wished my paper - weights to be of a sedentary disposition , and thought it very unnatural that feet should walk about without legs , and I commenced to experience a feeling closely akin to fear .
Suddenly I saw the folds of my bed - curtain stir , and heard a bumping sound , like that caused by some person hopping on one foot across the floor .
I must confess I became alternately hot and cold , that I felt a strange wind chill my back , and that my suddenly rising hair caused my night - cap to execute a leap of several yards .
The bed - curtains opened and I beheld the strangest figure imaginable before me .
It was a young girl of a very deep coffee - brown complexion , like the bayadre Amani , and possessing the purest Egyptian type of perfect beauty .
Her eyes were almond shaped and oblique , with eyebrows so black that they seemed blue ; her nose was exquisitely chiselled , almost Greek in its delicacy of outline ; and she might indeed have been taken for a Corinthian statue of bronze but for the prominence of her cheek - bones and the slightly African fulness of her lips , which compelled one to recognise her as belonging beyond all doubt to the hieroglyphic race which dwelt upon the banks of the Nile .
Her arms , slender and spindle - shaped like those of very young girls , were encircled by a peculiar kind of metal bands and bracelets of glass beads ; her hair was all twisted into little cords , and she wore upon her bosom a little idol - figure of green paste , bearing a whip with seven lashes , which proved it to be an image of Isis ; her brow was adorned with a shining plate of gold , and a few traces of paint relieved the coppery tint of her cheeks .
As for her costume , it was very odd indeed .
Fancy a pagne , or skirt , all formed of little strips of material bedizened with red and black hieroglyphics , stiffened with bitumen , and apparently belonging to a freshly unbandaged mummy .
In one of those sudden flights of thought so common in dreams I heard the hoarse falsetto of the bric - brac dealer , repeating like a monotonous refrain the phrase he had uttered in his shop with so enigmatical an intonation : ' Old Pharaoh will not be well pleased He loved his daughter , the dear man ! '
One strange circumstance , which was not at all calculated to restore my equanimity , was that the apparition had but one foot ; the other was broken off at the ankle !
She approached the table where the foot was starting and fidgeting about more than ever , and there supported herself upon the edge of the desk .
I saw her eyes fill with pearly gleaming tears .
Although she had not as yet spoken , I fully comprehended the thoughts which agitated her .
She looked at her foot - for it was indeed her own - with an exquisitely graceful expression of coquettish sadness , but the foot leaped and ran hither and thither , as though impelled on steel springs .
Twice or thrice she extended her hand to seize it , but could not succeed .
Then commenced between the Princess Hermonthis and her foot - which appeared to be endowed with a special life of its own - a very fantastic dialogue in a most ancient Coptic tongue , such as might have been spoken thirty centuries ago in the syrinxes of the land of Ser .
Luckily I understood Coptic perfectly well that night .
The Princess Hermonthis cried , in a voice sweet and vibrant as the tones of a crystal bell : ' Well , my dear little foot , you always flee from me , yet I always took good care of you .
I bathed you with perfumed water in a bowl of alabaster ; I smoothed your heel with pumice - stone mixed with palm - oil ; your nails were cut with golden scissors and polished with a hippopotamus tooth ; I was careful to select tatbebs for you , painted and embroidered and turned up at the toes , which were the envy of all the young girls in Egypt .
You wore on your great toe rings bearing the device of the sacred Scarabseus , and you supported one of the lightest bodies that a lazy foot could sustain . '
The foot replied in a pouting and chagrined tone : ' You know well that I do not belong to myself any longer .
I have been bought and paid for .
The old merchant knew what he was about .
He bore you a grudge for having refused to espouse him .
This is an ill turn which he has done you .
The Arab who violated your royal coffin in the subterranean pits of the necropolis of Thebes was sent thither by him .
He desired to prevent you from being present at the reunion of the shadowy nations in the cities below .
Have you five pieces of gold for my ransom ? '
' Alas , no !
My jewels , my rings , my purses of gold and silver were all stolen from me , ' answered the Princess Hermonthis with a sob .
' Princess , ' I then exclaimed , ' I never retained anybody 's foot unjustly .
Even though you have not got the five louis which it cost me , I present it to you gladly .
I should feel unutterably wretched to think that I were the cause of so amiable a person as the Princess Hermonthis being lame . '
I delivered this discourse in a royally gallant , troubadour tone which must have astonished the beautiful Egyptian girl .
She turned a look of deepest gratitude upon me , and her eyes shone with bluish gleams of light .
She took her foot , which surrendered itself willingly this time , like a woman about to put on her little shoe , and adjusted it to her leg with much skill .
This operation over , she took a few steps about the room , as though to assure herself that she was really no longer lame .
' Ah , how pleased my father will be !
He who was so unhappy because of my mutilation , and who from the moment of my birth set a whole nation at work to hollow me out a tomb so deep that he might preserve me intact until that last day when souls must be weighed in the balance of Amenthi !
Come with me to my father .
He will receive you kindly , for you have given me back my foot . '
I thought this proposition natural enough .
I arrayed myself in a dressing - gown of large - flowered pattern , which lent me a very Pharaonic aspect , hurriedly put on a pair of Turkish slippers , and informed the Princess Hermonthis that I was ready to follow her .
Before starting , Hermonthis took from her neck the little idol of green paste , and laid it on the scattered sheets of paper which covered the table .
' It is only fair , ' she observed , smilingly , ' that I should replace your paper - weight . '
She gave me her hand , which felt soft and cold , like the skin of a serpent , and we departed .
We passed for some time with the velocity of an arrow through a fluid and grayish expanse , in which half - formed silhouettes flitted swiftly by us , to right and left .
For an instant we saw only sky and sea .
A few moments later obelisks commenced to tower in the distance ; pylons and vast flights of steps guarded by sphinxes became clearly outlined against the horizon .
We had reached our destination .
The princess conducted me to a mountain of rose - coloured granite , in the face of which appeared an opening so narrow and low that it would have been difficult to distinguish it from the fissures in the rock , had not its location been marked by two stelae wrought with sculptures .
Hermonthis kindled a torch and led the way before me .
We traversed corridors hewn through the living rock .
Their walls , covered with hieroglyphics and paintings of allegorical processions , might well have occupied thousands of arms for thousands of years in their formation .
These corridors of interminable length opened into square chambers , in the midst of which pits had been contrived , through which we descended by cramp - irons or spiral stairways .
These pits again conducted us into other chambers , opening into other corridors , likewise decorated with painted sparrow - hawks , serpents coiled in circles , the symbols of the tau and pedum - prodigious works of art which no living eye can ever examine - interminable legends of granite which only the dead have time to read through all eternity .
At last we found ourselves in a hall so vast , so enormous , so immeasurable , that the eye could not reach its limits .
Files of monstrous columns stretched far out of sight on every side , between which twinkled livid stars of yellowish flame ; points of light which revealed further depths incalculable in the darkness beyond .
The Princess Hermonthis still held my hand , and graciously saluted the mummies of her acquaintance .
My eyes became accustomed to the dim twilight , and objects became discernible .
I beheld the kings of the subterranean races seated upon thrones - grand old men , though dry , withered , wrinkled like parchment , and blackened with naphtha and bitumen - all wearing pshents of gold , and breastplates and gorgets glittering with precious stones , their eyes immovably fixed like the eyes of sphinxes , and their long beards whitened by the snow of centuries .
Behind them stood their peoples , in the stiff and constrained posture enjoined by Egyptian art , all eternally preserving the attitude prescribed by the hieratic code .
Behind these nations , the cats , ibixes , and crocodiles contemporary with them - rendered monstrous of aspect by their swathing bands - mewed , flapped their wings , or extended their jaws in a saurian giggle .
All the Pharaohs were there - Cheops , Chephrenes , Psammetichus , Sesostris , Amenotaph - all the dark rulers of the pyramids and syrinxes .
On yet higher thrones sat Chronos and Xixouthros , who was contemporary with the deluge , and Tubal Cain , who reigned before it .
The beard of King Xixouthros had grown seven times around the granite table upon which he leaned , lost in deep reverie , and buried in dreams .
Further back , through a dusty cloud , I beheld dimly the seventy - two pre - adamite kings , with their seventy - two peoples , for ever passed away .
After permitting me to gaze upon this bewildering spectacle a few moments , the Princess Hermonthis presented me to her father Pharaoh , who favoured me with a most gracious nod .
' I have found my foot again !
I have found my foot ! '
cried the princess , clapping her little hands together with every sign of frantic joy .
' It was this gentleman who restored it to me . '
The races of Kemi , the races of Nahasi - all the black , bronzed , and copper - coloured nations repeated in chorus : ' The Princess Hermonthis has found her foot again ! '
Even Xixouthros himself was visibly affected .
He raised his heavy eyelids , stroked his moustache with his fingers , and turned upon me a glance weighty with centuries .
' By Oms , the dog of Hell , and Tmei , daughter of the Sun and of Truth , this is a brave and worthy lad ! '
exclaimed Pharaoh , pointing to me with his sceptre , which was terminated with a lotus - flower .
' What recompense do you desire ? '
Filled with that daring inspired by dreams in which nothing seems impossible , I asked him for the hand of the Princess Hermonthis .
The hand seemed to me a very proper antithetic recompense for the foot .
Pharaoh opened wide his great eyes of glass in astonishment at my witty request .
' What country do you come from , and what is your age ? '
' I am a Frenchman , and I am twenty - seven years old venerable Pharaoh . '
' Twenty - seven years old , and he wishes to espouse the Princess Hermonthis who is thirty centuries old ! '
cried out at once all the Thrones and all the Circles of Nations .
Only Hermonthis herself did not seem to think my request unreasonable .
' If you were even only two thousand years old , ' replied the ancient king , ' I would willingly give you the princess , but the disproportion is too great ; and , besides , we must give our daughters husbands who will last well .
You do not know how to preserve yourselves any longer .
Even those who died only fifteen centuries ago are already no more than a handful of dust .
Behold , my flesh is solid as basalt , my bones are bars of steel !
' I will be present on the last day of the world with the same body and the same features which I had during my lifetime .
My daughter Hermonthis will last longer than a statue of bronze .
' Then the last particles of your dust will have been scattered abroad by the winds , and even Isis herself , who was able to find the atoms of Osiris , would scarce be able to recompose your being .
' See how vigorous I yet remain , and how mighty is my grasp , ' he added , shaking my hand in the English fashion with a strength that buried my rings in the flesh of my fingers .
He squeezed me so hard that I awoke , and found my friend Alfred shaking me by the arm to make me get up .
' Oh , you everlasting sleeper !
Must I have you carried out into the middle of the street , and fireworks exploded in your ears ?
It is afternoon .
Do n't you recollect your promise to take me with you to see M. Aguado 's Spanish pictures ? '
' God !
I forgot all , all about it , ' I answered , dressing myself hurriedly .
' We will go there at once .
I have the permit lying there on my desk . '
I started to find it , but fancy my astonishment when I beheld , instead of the mummy 's foot I had purchased the evening before , the little green paste idol left in its place by the Princess Hermonthis !
My Favorite Murder Oil of Dog An Imperfect Conflagration The Hypnotist MY FAVORITE MURDER Having murdered my mother under circumstances of singular atrocity , I was arrested and put upon my trial , which lasted seven years .
In charging the jury , the judge of the Court of Acquittal remarked that it was one of the most ghastly crimes that he had ever been called upon to explain away .
At this , my attorney rose and said : " May it please your Honor , crimes are ghastly or agreeable only by comparison .
If you were familiar with the details of my client 's previous murder of his uncle you would discern in his later offense ( if offense it may be called ) something in the nature of tender forbearance and filial consideration for the feelings of the victim .
The appalling ferocity of the former assassination was indeed inconsistent with any hypothesis but that of guilt ; and had it not been for the fact that the honorable judge before whom he was tried was the president of a life insurance company that took risks on hanging , and in which my client held a policy , it is hard to see how he could decently have been acquitted .
If your Honor would like to hear about it for instruction and guidance of your Honor 's mind , this unfortunate man , my client , will consent to give himself the pain of relating it under oath . "
The district attorney said : " Your Honor , I object .
Such a statement would be in the nature of evidence , and the testimony in this case is closed .
The prisoner 's statement should have been introduced three years ago , in the spring of 1881 . "
" In a statutory sense , " said the judge , " you are right , and in the Court of Objections and Technicalities you would get a ruling in your favor .
But not in a Court of Acquittal .
The objection is overruled . "
" I except , " said the district attorney .
" You can not do that , " the judge said .
" I must remind you that in order to take an exception you must first get this case transferred for a time to the Court of Exceptions on a formal motion duly supported by affidavits .
A motion to that effect by your predecessor in office was denied by me during the first year of this trial .
Mr.
Clerk , swear the prisoner . "
The customary oath having been administered , I made the following statement , which impressed the judge with so strong a sense of the comparative triviality of the offense for which I was on trial that he made no further search for mitigating circumstances , but simply instructed the jury to acquit , and I left the court , without a stain upon my reputation : " I was born in 1856 in Kalamakee , Mich. , of honest and reputable parents , one of whom Heaven has mercifully spared to comfort me in my later years .
In 1867 the family came to California and settled near Nigger Head , where my father opened a road agency and prospered beyond the dreams of avarice .
He was a reticent , saturnine man then , though his increasing years have now somewhat relaxed the austerity of his disposition , and I believe that nothing but his memory of the sad event for which I am now on trial prevents him from manifesting a genuine hilarity .
" Four years after we had set up the road agency an itinerant preacher came along , and having no other way to pay for the night 's lodging that we gave him , favored us with an exhortation of such power that , praise God , we were all converted to religion .
My father at once sent for his brother , the Hon .
William Ridley of Stockton , and on his arrival turned over the agency to him , charging him nothing for the franchise nor plant - the latter consisting of a Winchester rifle , a sawed - off shotgun , and an assortment of masks made out of flour sacks .
The family then moved to Ghost Rock and opened a dance house .
It was called ' The Saints ' Rest Hurdy - Gurdy , ' and the proceedings each night began with prayer .
It was there that my now sainted mother , by her grace in the dance , acquired the sobriquet of ' The Bucking Walrus . '
" In the fall of ' 75 I had occasion to visit Coyote , on the road to Mahala , and took the stage at Ghost Rock .
There were four other passengers .
About three miles beyond Nigger Head , persons whom I identified as my Uncle William and his two sons held up the stage .
Finding nothing in the express box , they went through the passengers .
I acted a most honorable part in the affair , placing myself in line with the others , holding up my hands and permitting myself to be deprived of forty dollars and a gold watch .
From my behavior no one could have suspected that I knew the gentlemen who gave the entertainment .
A few days later , when I went to Nigger Head and asked for the return of my money and watch my uncle and cousins swore they knew nothing of the matter , and they affected a belief that my father and I had done the job ourselves in dishonest violation of commercial good faith .
Uncle William even threatened to retaliate by starting an opposition dance house at Ghost Rock .
As ' The Saints ' Rest ' had become rather unpopular , I saw that this would assuredly ruin it and prove a paying enterprise , so I told my uncle that I was willing to overlook the past if he would take me into the scheme and keep the partnership a secret from my father .
This fair offer he rejected , and I then perceived that it would be better and more satisfactory if he were dead .
" My plans to that end were soon perfected , and communicating them to my dear parents I had the gratification of receiving their approval .
My father said he was proud of me , and my mother promised that although her religion forbade her to assist in taking human life I should have the advantage of her prayers for my success .
As a preliminary measure looking to my security in case of detection I made an application for membership in that powerful order , the Knights of Murder , and in due course was received as a member of the Ghost Rock commandery .
On the day that my probation ended I was for the first time permitted to inspect the records of the order and learn who belonged to it - all the rites of initiation having been conducted in masks .
Fancy my delight when , in looking over the roll of membership , I found the third name to be that of my uncle , who indeed was junior vice - chancellor of the order !
Here was an opportunity exceeding my wildest dreams - to murder I could add insubordination and treachery .
It was what my good mother would have called ' a special Providence . '
" At about this time something occurred which caused my cup of joy , already full , to overflow on all sides , a circular cataract of bliss .
Three men , strangers in that locality , were arrested for the stage robbery in which I had lost my money and watch .
They were brought to trial and , despite my efforts to clear them and fasten the guilt upon three of the most respectable and worthy citizens of Ghost Rock , convicted on the clearest proof .
The murder would now be as wanton and reasonless as I could wish .
" One morning I shouldered my Winchester rifle , and going over to my uncle 's house , near Nigger Head , asked my Aunt Mary , his wife , if he were at home , adding that I had come to kill him .
My aunt replied with her peculiar smile that so many gentlemen called on that errand and were afterward carried away without having performed it that I must excuse her for doubting my good faith in the matter .
She said I did not look as if I would kill anybody , so , as a proof of good faith I leveled my rifle and wounded a Chinaman who happened to be passing the house .
She said she knew whole families that could do a thing of that kind , but Bill Ridley was a horse of another color .
She said , however , that I would find him over on the other side of the creek in the sheep lot ; and she added that she hoped the best man would win .
" My Aunt Mary was one of the most fair - minded women that I have ever met .
" I found my uncle down on his knees engaged in skinning a sheep .
Seeing that he had neither gun nor pistol handy I had not the heart to shoot him , so I approached him , greeted him pleasantly and struck him a powerful blow on the head with the butt of my rifle .
I have a very good delivery and Uncle William lay down on his side , then rolled over on his back , spread out his fingers and shivered .
Before he could recover the use of his limbs I seized the knife that he had been using and cut his hamstrings .
You know , doubtless , that when you sever the tendo Achillis the patient has no further use of his leg ; it is just the same as if he had no leg .
Well , I parted them both , and when he revived he was at my service .
As soon as he comprehended the situation , he said : " ' Samuel , you have got the drop on me and can afford to be generous .
I have only one thing to ask of you , and that is that you carry me to the house and finish me in the bosom of my family . '
" I told him I thought that a pretty reasonable request and I would do so if he would let me put him into a wheat sack ; he would be easier to carry that way and if we were seen by the neighbors en route it would cause less remark .
He agreed to that , and going to the barn I got a sack .
This , however , did not fit him ; it was too short and much wider than he ; so I bent his legs , forced his knees up against his breast and got him into it that way , tying the sack above his head .
He was a heavy man and I had all that I could do to get him on my back , but I staggered along for some distance until I came to a swing that some of the children had suspended to the branch of an oak .
Here I laid him down and sat upon him to rest , and the sight of the rope gave me a happy inspiration .
In twenty minutes my uncle , still in the sack , swung free to the sport of the wind .
" I had taken down the rope , tied one end tightly about the mouth of the bag , thrown the other across the limb and hauled him up about five feet from the ground .
Fastening the other end of the rope also about the mouth of the sack , I had the satisfaction to see my uncle converted into a large , fine pendulum .
I must add that he was not himself entirely aware of the nature of the change that he had undergone in his relation to the exterior world , though in justice to a good man 's memory I ought to say that I do not think he would in any case have wasted much of my time in vain remonstrance .
" Uncle William had a ram that was famous in all that region as a fighter .
It was in a state of chronic constitutional indignation .
Some deep disappointment in early life had soured its disposition and it had declared war upon the whole world .
To say that it would butt anything accessible is but faintly to express the nature and scope of its military activity : the universe was its antagonist ; its methods that of a projectile .
It fought like the angels and devils , in mid - air , cleaving the atmosphere like a bird , describing a parabolic curve and descending upon its victim at just the exact angle of incidence to make the most of its velocity and weight .
Its momentum , calculated in foot - tons , was something incredible .
It had been seen to destroy a four year old bull by a single impact upon that animal 's gnarly forehead .
No stone wall had ever been known to resist its downward swoop ; there were no trees tough enough to stay it ; it would splinter them into matchwood and defile their leafy honors in the dust .
This irascible and implacable brute - this incarnate thunderbolt - this monster of the upper deep , I had seen reposing in the shade of an adjacent tree , dreaming dreams of conquest and glory .
It was with a view to summoning it forth to the field of honor that I suspended its master in the manner described .
" Having completed my preparations , I imparted to the avuncular pendulum a gentle oscillation , and retiring to cover behind a contiguous rock , lifted up my voice in a long rasping cry whose diminishing final note was drowned in a noise like that of a swearing cat , which emanated from the sack .
Instantly that formidable sheep was upon its feet and had taken in the military situation at a glance .
In a few moments it had approached , stamping , to within fifty yards of the swinging foeman , who , now retreating and anon advancing , seemed to invite the fray .
Suddenly I saw the beast 's head drop earthward as if depressed by the weight of its enormous horns ; then a dim , white , wavy streak of sheep prolonged itself from that spot in a generally horizontal direction to within about four yards of a point immediately beneath the enemy .
There it struck sharply upward , and before it had faded from my gaze at the place whence it had set out I heard a horrid thump and a piercing scream , and my poor uncle shot forward , with a slack rope higher than the limb to which he was attached .
Here the rope tautened with a jerk , arresting his flight , and back he swung in a breathless curve to the other end of his arc .
The ram had fallen , a heap of indistinguishable legs , wool and horns , but pulling itself together and dodging as its antagonist swept downward it retired at random , alternately shaking its head and stamping its fore - feet .
When it had backed about the same distance as that from which it had delivered the assault it paused again , bowed its head as if in prayer for victory and again shot forward , dimly visible as before - a prolonging white streak with monstrous undulations , ending with a sharp ascension .
Its course this time was at a right angle to its former one , and its impatience so great that it struck the enemy before he had nearly reached the lowest point of his arc .
In consequence he went flying round and round in a horizontal circle whose radius was about equal to half the length of the rope , which I forgot to say was nearly twenty feet long .
His shrieks , crescendo in approach and diminuendo in recession , made the rapidity of his revolution more obvious to the ear than to the eye .
He had evidently not yet been struck in a vital spot .
His posture in the sack and the distance from the ground at which he hung compelled the ram to operate upon his lower extremities and the end of his back .
Like a plant that has struck its root into some poisonous mineral , my poor uncle was dying slowly upward .
" After delivering its second blow the ram had not again retired .
The fever of battle burned hot in its heart ; its brain was intoxicated with the wine of strife .
Like a pugilist who in his rage forgets his skill and fights ineffectively at half - arm 's length , the angry beast endeavored to reach its fleeting foe by awkward vertical leaps as he passed overhead , sometimes , indeed , succeeding in striking him feebly , but more frequently overthrown by its own misguided eagerness .
But as the impetus was exhausted and the man 's circles narrowed in scope and diminished in speed , bringing him nearer to the ground , these tactics produced better results , eliciting a superior quality of screams , which I greatly enjoyed .
" Suddenly , as if the bugles had sung truce , the ram suspended hostilities and walked away , thoughtfully wrinkling and smoothing its great aquiline nose , and occasionally cropping a bunch of grass and slowly munching it .
It seemed to have tired of war 's alarms and resolved to beat the sword into a plowshare and cultivate the arts of peace .
Steadily it held its course away from the field of fame until it had gained a distance of nearly a quarter of a mile .
There it stopped and stood with its rear to the foe , chewing its cud and apparently half asleep .
I observed , however , an occasional slight turn of its head , as if its apathy were more affected than real .
" Meantime Uncle William 's shrieks had abated with his motion , and nothing was heard from him but long , low moans , and at long intervals my name , uttered in pleading tones exceedingly grateful to my ear .
Evidently the man had not the faintest notion of what was being done to him , and was inexpressibly terrified .
When Death comes cloaked in mystery he is terrible indeed .
Little by little my uncle 's oscillations diminished , and finally he hung motionless .
I went to him and was about to give him the coup de grace , when I heard and felt a succession of smart shocks which shook the ground like a series of light earthquakes , and turning in the direction of the ram , saw a long cloud of dust approaching me with inconceivable rapidity and alarming effect !
At a distance of some thirty yards away it stopped short , and from the near end of it rose into the air what I at first thought a great white bird .
Its ascent was so smooth and easy and regular that I could not realize its extraordinary celerity , and was lost in admiration of its grace .
To this day the impression remains that it was a slow , deliberate movement , the ram - for it was that animal - being upborne by some power other than its own impetus , and supported through the successive stages of its flight with infinite tenderness and care .
My eyes followed its progress through the air with unspeakable pleasure , all the greater by contrast with my former terror of its approach by land .
Onward and upward the noble animal sailed , its head bent down almost between its knees , its fore - feet thrown back , its hinder legs trailing to rear like the legs of a soaring heron .
" At a height of forty or fifty feet , as fond recollection presents it to view , it attained its zenith and appeared to remain an instant stationary ; then , tilting suddenly forward without altering the relative position of its parts , it shot downward on a steeper and steeper course with augmenting velocity , passed immediately above me with a noise like the rush of a cannon shot and struck my poor uncle almost squarely on the top of the head !
So frightful was the impact that not only the man 's neck was broken , but the rope too ; and the body of the deceased , forced against the earth , was crushed to pulp beneath the awful front of that meteoric sheep !
The concussion stopped all the clocks between Lone Hand and Dutch Dan 's , and Professor Davidson , a distinguished authority in matters seismic , who happened to be in the vicinity , promptly explained that the vibrations were from north to southwest .
" Altogether , I can not help thinking that in point of artistic atrocity my murder of Uncle William has seldom been excelled . "
OIL OF DOG My name is Boffer Bings .
I was born of honest parents in one of the humbler walks of life , my father being a manufacturer of dog - oil and my mother having a small studio in the shadow of the village church , where she disposed of unwelcome babes .
In my boyhood I was trained to habits of industry ; I not only assisted my father in procuring dogs for his vats , but was frequently employed by my mother to carry away the debris of her work in the studio .
In performance of this duty I sometimes had need of all my natural intelligence for all the law officers of the vicinity were opposed to my mother 's business .
They were not elected on an opposition ticket , and the matter had never been made a political issue ; it just happened so .
My father 's business of making dog - oil was , naturally , less unpopular , though the owners of missing dogs sometimes regarded him with suspicion , which was reflected , to some extent , upon me .
My father had , as silent partners , all the physicians of the town , who seldom wrote a prescription which did not contain what they were pleased to designate as Ol .
can .
It is really the most valuable medicine ever discovered .
But most persons are unwilling to make personal sacrifices for the afflicted , and it was evident that many of the fattest dogs in town had been forbidden to play with me - a fact which pained my young sensibilities , and at one time came near driving me to become a pirate .
Looking back upon those days , I can not but regret , at times , that by indirectly bringing my beloved parents to their death I was the author of misfortunes profoundly affecting my future .
One evening while passing my father 's oil factory with the body of a foundling from my mother 's studio I saw a constable who seemed to be closely watching my movements .
Young as I was , I had learned that a constable 's acts , of whatever apparent character , are prompted by the most reprehensible motives , and I avoided him by dodging into the oilery by a side door which happened to stand ajar .
I locked it at once and was alone with my dead .
My father had retired for the night .
The only light in the place came from the furnace , which glowed a deep , rich crimson under one of the vats , casting ruddy reflections on the walls .
Within the cauldron the oil still rolled in indolent ebullition , occasionally pushing to the surface a piece of dog .
Seating myself to wait for the constable to go away , I held the naked body of the foundling in my lap and tenderly stroked its short , silken hair .
Ah , how beautiful it was !
Even at that early age I was passionately fond of children , and as I looked upon this cherub I could almost find it in my heart to wish that the small , red wound upon its breast - the work of my dear mother - had not been mortal .
It had been my custom to throw the babes into the river which nature had thoughtfully provided for the purpose , but that night I did not dare to leave the oilery for fear of the constable .
" After all , " I said to myself , " it can not greatly matter if I put it into this cauldron .
My father will never know the bones from those of a puppy , and the few deaths which may result from administering another kind of oil for the incomparable ol .
can .
are not important in a population which increases so rapidly . "
In short , I took the first step in crime and brought myself untold sorrow by casting the babe into the cauldron .
The next day , somewhat to my surprise , my father , rubbing his hands with satisfaction , informed me and my mother that he had obtained the finest quality of oil that was ever seen ; that the physicians to whom he had shown samples had so pronounced it .
He added that he had no knowledge as to how the result was obtained ; the dogs had been treated in all respects as usual , and were of an ordinary breed .
I deemed it my duty to explain - which I did , though palsied would have been my tongue if I could have foreseen the consequences .
Bewailing their previous ignorance of the advantages of combining their industries , my parents at once took measures to repair the error .
My mother removed her studio to a wing of the factory building and my duties in connection with the business ceased ; I was no longer required to dispose of the bodies of the small superfluous , and there was no need of alluring dogs to their doom , for my father discarded them altogether , though they still had an honorable place in the name of the oil .
So suddenly thrown into idleness , I might naturally have been expected to become vicious and dissolute , but I did not .
The holy influence of my dear mother was ever about me to protect me from the temptations which beset youth , and my father was a deacon in a church .
Alas , that through my fault these estimable persons should have come to so bad an end !
Finding a double profit in her business , my mother now devoted herself to it with a new assiduity .
She removed not only superfluous and unwelcome babes to order , but went out into the highways and byways , gathering in children of a larger growth , and even such adults as she could entice to the oilery .
My father , too , enamored of the superior quality of oil produced , purveyed for his vats with diligence and zeal .
The conversion of their neighbors into dog - oil became , in short , the one passion of their lives - an absorbing and overwhelming greed took possession of their souls and served them in place of a hope in Heaven - by which , also , they were inspired .
So enterprising had they now become that a public meeting was held and resolutions passed severely censuring them .
It was intimated by the chairman that any further raids upon the population would be met in a spirit of hostility .
My poor parents left the meeting broken - hearted , desperate and , I believe , not altogether sane .
Anyhow , I deemed it prudent not to enter the oilery with them that night , but slept outside in a stable .
At about midnight some mysterious impulse caused me to rise and peer through a window into the furnace - room , where I knew my father now slept .
The fires were burning as brightly as if the following day 's harvest had been expected to be abundant .
One of the large cauldrons was slowly " walloping " with a mysterious appearance of self - restraint , as if it bided its time to put forth its full energy .
My father was not in bed ; he had risen in his night clothes and was preparing a noose in a strong cord .
From the looks which he cast at the door of my mother 's bedroom I knew too well the purpose that he had in mind .
Speechless and motionless with terror , I could do nothing in prevention or warning .
Suddenly the door of my mother 's apartment was opened , noiselessly , and the two confronted each other , both apparently surprised .
The lady , also , was in her night clothes , and she held in her right hand the tool of her trade , a long , narrow - bladed dagger .
She , too , had been unable to deny herself the last profit which the unfriendly action of the citizens and my absence had left her .
For one instant they looked into each other 's blazing eyes and then sprang together with indescribable fury .
Round and round , the room they struggled , the man cursing , the woman shrieking , both fighting like demons - she to strike him with the dagger , he to strangle her with his great bare hands .
I know not how long I had the unhappiness to observe this disagreeable instance of domestic infelicity , but at last , after a more than usually vigorous struggle , the combatants suddenly moved apart .
My father 's breast and my mother 's weapon showed evidences of contact .
For another instant they glared at each other in the most unamiable way ; then my poor , wounded father , feeling the hand of death upon him , leaped forward , unmindful of resistance , grasped my dear mother in his arms , dragged her to the side of the boiling cauldron , collected all his failing energies , and sprang in with her !
In a moment , both had disappeared and were adding their oil to that of the committee of citizens who had called the day before with an invitation to the public meeting .
Convinced that these unhappy events closed to me every avenue to an honorable career in that town , I removed to the famous city of Otumwee , where these memoirs are written with a heart full of remorse for a heedless act entailing so dismal a commercial disaster .
AN IMPERFECT CONFLAGRATION Early one June morning in 1872 I murdered my father - an act which made a deep impression on me at the time .
This was before my marriage , while I was living with my parents in Wisconsin .
My father and I were in the library of our home , dividing the proceeds of a burglary which we had committed that night .
These consisted of household goods mostly , and the task of equitable division was difficult .
We got on very well with the napkins , towels and such things , and the silverware was parted pretty nearly equally , but you can see for yourself that when you try to divide a single music - box by two without a remainder you will have trouble .
It was that music - box which brought disaster and disgrace upon our family .
If we had left it my poor father might now be alive .
It was a most exquisite and beautiful piece of workmanship - inlaid with costly woods and carven very curiously .
It would not only play a great variety of tunes , but would whistle like a quail , bark like a dog , crow every morning at daylight whether it was wound up or not , and break the Ten Commandments .
It was this last mentioned accomplishment that won my father 's heart and caused him to commit the only dishonorable act of his life , though possibly he would have committed more if he had been spared : he tried to conceal that music - box from me , and declared upon his honor that he had not taken it , though I know very well that , so far as he was concerned , the burglary had been undertaken chiefly for the purpose of obtaining it .
My father had the music - box hidden under his cloak ; we had worn cloaks by way of disguise .
He had solemnly assured me that he did not take it .
I knew that he did , and knew something of which he was evidently ignorant ; namely , that the box would crow at daylight and betray him if I could prolong the division of profits till that time .
All occurred as I wished : as the gaslight began to pale in the library and the shape of the windows was seen dimly behind the curtains , a long cock - a - doodle - doo came from beneath the old gentleman 's cloak , followed by a few bars of an aria from Tannhauser , ending with a loud click .
A small hand - axe , which we had used to break into the unlucky house , lay between us on the table ; I picked it up .
The old man seeing that further concealment was useless took the box from under his cloak and set it on the table .
" Cut it in two if you prefer that plan , " said he ; " I tried to save it from destruction . "
He was a passionate lover of music and could himself play the concertina with expression and feeling .
I said : " I do not question the purity of your motive : it would be presumptuous of me to sit in judgment on my father .
But business is business , and with this axe I am going to effect a dissolution of our partnership unless you will consent in all future burglaries to wear a bell - punch . "
" No , " he said , after some reflection , " no , I could not do that ; it would look like a confession of dishonesty .
People would say that you distrusted me . "
I could not help admiring his spirit and sensitiveness ; for a moment I was proud of him and disposed to overlook his fault , but a glance at the richly jeweled music - box decided me , and , as I said , I removed the old man from this vale of tears .
Having done so , I was a trifle uneasy .
Not only was he my father - the author of my being - but the body would be certainly discovered .
It was now broad daylight and my mother was likely to enter the library at any moment .
Under the circumstances , I thought it expedient to remove her also , which I did .
Then I paid off all the servants and discharged them .
That afternoon I went to the chief of police , told him what I had done and asked his advice .
It would be very painful to me if the facts became publicly known .
My conduct would be generally condemned ; the newspapers would bring it up against me if ever I should run for office .
The chief saw the force of these considerations ; he was himself an assassin of wide experience .
After consulting with the presiding judge of the Court of Variable Jurisdiction he advised me to conceal the bodies in one of the bookcases , get a heavy insurance on the house and burn it down .
This I proceeded to do .
In the library was a book - case which my father had recently purchased of some cranky inventor and had not filled .
It was in shape and size something like the old - fashioned " ward - robes " which one sees in bed - rooms without closets , but opened all the way down , like a woman 's night - dress .
It had glass doors .
I had recently laid out my parents and they were now rigid enough to stand erect ; so I stood them in this book - case , from which I had removed the shelves .
I locked them in and tacked some curtains over the glass doors .
The inspector from the insurance office passed a half - dozen times before the case without suspicion .
That night , after getting my policy , I set fire to the house and started through the woods to town , two miles away , where I managed to be found about the time the excitement was at its height .
With cries of apprehension for the fate of my parents , I joined the rush and arrived at the fire some two hours after I had kindled it .
The whole town was there as I dashed up .
The house was entirely consumed , but in one end of the level bed of glowing embers , bolt upright and uninjured , was that book - case !
The curtains had burned away , exposing the glass - doors , through which the fierce , red light illuminated the interior .
There stood my dear father " in his habit as he lived , " and at his side the partner of his joys and sorrows .
Not a hair of them was singed , their clothing was intact .
On their heads and throats the injuries which in the accomplishment of my designs I had been compelled to inflict were conspicuous .
As in the presence of a miracle , the people were silent ; awe and terror had stilled every tongue .
I was myself greatly affected .
Some three years later , when the events herein related had nearly faded from my memory , I went to New York to assist in passing some counterfeit United States bonds .
Carelessly looking into a furniture store one day , I saw the exact counterpart of that book - case .
" I bought it for a trifle from a reformed inventor , " the dealer explained .
" He said it was fireproof , the pores of the wood being filled with alum under hydraulic pressure and the glass made of asbestos .
I do n't suppose it is really fireproof - you can have it at the price of an ordinary book - case . "
" No , " I said , " if you can not warrant it fireproof I wo n't take it " - and I bade him good morning .
I would not have had it at any price : it revived memories that were exceedingly disagreeable .
THE HYPNOTIST By those of my friends who happen to know that I sometimes amuse myself with hypnotism , mind reading and kindred phenomena , I am frequently asked if I have a clear conception of the nature of whatever principle underlies them .
To this question I always reply that I neither have nor desire to have .
I am no investigator with an ear at the key - hole of Nature 's workshop , trying with vulgar curiosity to steal the secrets of her trade .
The interests of science are as little to me as mine seem to have been to science .
Doubtless the phenomena in question are simple enough , and in no way transcend our powers of comprehension if only we could find the clew ; but for my part I prefer not to find it , for I am of a singularly romantic disposition , deriving more gratification from mystery than from knowledge .
It was commonly remarked of me when I was a child that my big blue eyes appeared to have been made rather to look into than look out of - such was their dreamful beauty , and in my frequent periods of abstraction , their indifference to what was going on .
In those peculiarities they resembled , I venture to think , the soul which lies behind them , always more intent upon some lovely conception which it has created in its own image than concerned about the laws of nature and the material frame of things .
All this , irrelevant and egotistic as it may seem , is related by way of accounting for the meagreness of the light that I am able to throw upon a subject that has engaged so much of my attention , and concerning which there is so keen and general a curiosity .
With my powers and opportunities , another person might doubtless have an explanation for much of what I present simply as narrative .
My first knowledge that I possessed unusual powers came to me in my fourteenth year , when at school .
Happening one day to have forgotten to bring my noon - day luncheon , I gazed longingly at that of a small girl who was preparing to eat hers .
Looking up , her eyes met mine and she seemed unable to withdraw them .
After a moment of hesitancy she came forward in an absent kind of way and without a word surrendered her little basket with its tempting contents and walked away .
Inexpressibly pleased , I relieved my hunger and destroyed the basket .
After that I had not the trouble to bring a luncheon for myself : that little girl was my daily purveyor ; and not infrequently in satisfying my simple need from her frugal store I combined pleasure and profit by constraining her attendance at the feast and making misleading proffer of the viands , which eventually I consumed to the last fragment .
The girl was always persuaded that she had eaten all herself ; and later in the day her tearful complaints of hunger surprised the teacher , entertained the pupils , earned for her the sobriquet of Greedy - Gut and filled me with a peace past understanding .
A disagreeable feature of this otherwise satisfactory condition of things was the necessary secrecy : the transfer of the luncheon , for example , had to be made at some distance from the madding crowd , in a wood ; and I blush to think of the many other unworthy subterfuges entailed by the situation .
As I was ( and am ) naturally of a frank and open disposition , these became more and more irksome , and but for the reluctance of my parents to renounce the obvious advantages of the new regime I would gladly have reverted to the old .
The plan that I finally adopted to free myself from the consequences of my own powers excited a wide and keen interest at the time , and that part of it which consisted in the death of the girl was severely condemned , but it is hardly pertinent to the scope of this narrative .
For some years afterward I had little opportunity to practice hypnotism ; such small essays as I made at it were commonly barren of other recognition than solitary confinement on a bread - and - water diet ; sometimes , indeed , they elicited nothing better than the cat - o ' - nine - tails .
It was when I was about to leave the scene of these small disappointments that my one really important feat was performed .
I had been called into the warden 's office and given a suit of civilian 's clothing , a trifling sum of money and a great deal of advice , which I am bound to confess was of a much better quality than the clothing .
As I was passing out of the gate into the light of freedom I suddenly turned and looking the warden gravely in the eye , soon had him in control .
" You are an ostrich , " I said .
At the post - mortem examination the stomach was found to contain a great quantity of indigestible articles mostly of wood or metal .
Stuck fast in the esophagus and constituting , according to the Coroner 's jury , the immediate cause of death , one door - knob .
I was by nature a good and affectionate son , but as I took my way into the great world from which I had been so long secluded I could not help remembering that all my misfortunes had flowed like a stream from the niggard economy of my parents in the matter of school luncheons ; and I knew of no reason to think they had reformed .
On the road between Succotash Hill and South Asphyxia is a little open field which once contained a shanty known as Pete Gilstrap 's Place , where that gentleman used to murder travelers for a living .
The death of Mr. Gilstrap and the diversion of nearly all the travel to another road occurred so nearly at the same time that no one has ever been able to say which was cause and which effect .
Anyhow , the field was now a desolation and the Place had long been burned .
It was while going afoot to South Asphyxia , the home of my childhood , that I found both my parents on their way to the Hill .
They had hitched their team and were eating luncheon under an oak tree in the center of the field .
The sight of the luncheon called up painful memories of my school days and roused the sleeping lion in my breast .
Approaching the guilty couple , who at once recognized me , I ventured to suggest that I share their hospitality .
" Of this cheer , my son , " said the author of my being , with characteristic pomposity , which age had not withered , " there is sufficient for but two .
I am not , I hope , insensible to the hunger - light in your eyes , but - " My father has never completed that sentence ; what he mistook for hunger - light was simply the earnest gaze of the hypnotist .
In a few seconds he was at my service .
A few more sufficed for the lady , and the dictates of a just resentment could be carried into effect .
" My former father , " I said , " I presume that it is known to you that you and this lady are no longer what you were ? "
" I have observed a certain subtle change , " was the rather dubious reply of the old gentleman ; " it is perhaps attributable to age . "
" It is more than that , " I explained ; " it goes to character - to species .
You and the lady here are , in truth , two broncos - wild stallions both , and unfriendly . "
" Why , John , " exclaimed my dear mother , " you do n't mean to say that I am - " " Madam , " I replied , solemnly , fixing my eyes again upon hers , " you are . "
Scarcely had the words fallen from my lips when she dropped upon her hands and knees , and backing up to the old man squealed like a demon and delivered a vicious kick upon his shin !
An instant later he was himself down on all - fours , headed away from her and flinging his feet at her simultaneously and successively .
With equal earnestness but inferior agility , because of her hampering body - gear , she plied her own .
Their flying legs crossed and mingled in the most bewildering way ; their feet sometimes meeting squarely in midair , their bodies thrust forward , falling flat upon the ground and for a moment helpless .
On recovering themselves they would resume the combat , uttering their frenzy in the nameless sounds of the furious brutes which they believed themselves to be - the whole region rang with their clamor !
Round and round they wheeled , the blows of their feet falling " like lightnings from the mountain cloud . "
They plunged and reared backward upon their knees , struck savagely at each other with awkward descending blows of both fists at once , and dropped again upon their hands as if unable to maintain the upright position of the body .
Grass and pebbles were torn from the soil by hands and feet ; clothing , hair , faces inexpressibly defiled with dust and blood .
Wild , inarticulate screams of rage attested the delivery of the blows ; groans , grunts and gasps their receipt .
Nothing more truly military was ever seen at Gettysburg or Waterloo : the valor of my dear parents in the hour of danger can never cease to be to me a source of pride and gratification .
At the end of it all two battered , tattered , bloody and fragmentary vestiges of mortality attested the solemn fact that the author of the strife was an orphan .
Arrested for provoking a breach of the peace , I was , and have ever since been , tried in the Court of Technicalities and Continuances whence , after fifteen years of proceedings , my attorney is moving heaven and earth to get the case taken to the Court of Remandment for New Trials .
Such are a few of my principal experiments in the mysterious force or agency known as hypnotic suggestion .
Whether or not it could be employed by a bad man for an unworthy purpose I am unable to say .
Myself , I do not believe this story .
Six persons are persuaded of its truth ; and the hope of these six is to convince themselves it was an hallucination .
Their difficulty is there are six of them .
Each one alone perceives clearly that it never could have been .
Unfortunately , they are close friends , and can not get away from one another ; and when they meet and look into each other 's eyes the thing takes shape again .
The one who told it to me , and who immediately wished he had not , was Armitage .
He told it to me one night when he and I were the only occupants of the Club smoking - room .
His telling me - as he explained afterwards - was an impulse of the moment .
Sense of the thing had been pressing upon him all that day with unusual persistence ; and the idea had occurred to him , on my entering the room , that the flippant scepticism with which an essentially commonplace mind like my own - he used the words in no offensive sense - would be sure to regard the affair might help to direct his own attention to its more absurd aspect .
I am inclined to think it did .
He thanked me for dismissing his entire narrative as the delusion of a disordered brain , and begged me not to mention the matter to another living soul .
I promised ; and I may as well here observe that I do not call this mentioning the matter .
Armitage is not the man 's real name ; it does not even begin with an A.
You might read this story and dine next to him the same evening : you would know nothing .
Also , of course , I did not consider myself debarred from speaking about it , discreetly , to Mrs. Armitage , a charming woman .
She burst into tears at the first mention of the thing .
It took me all I knew to tranquillize her .
She said that when she did not think about the thing she could be happy .
She and Armitage never spoke of it to one another ; and left to themselves her opinion was that eventually they might put remembrance behind them .
She wished they were not quite so friendly with the Everetts .
Mr. and Mrs. Everett had both dreamt precisely the same dream ; that is , assuming it was a dream .
Mr. Everett was not the sort of person that a clergyman ought , perhaps , to know ; but as Armitage would always argue : for a teacher of Christianity to withdraw his friendship from a man because that man was somewhat of a sinner would be inconsistent .
Rather should he remain his friend and seek to influence him .
They dined with the Everetts regularly on Tuesdays , and sitting opposite the Everetts , it seemed impossible to accept as a fact that all four of them at the same time and in the same manner had fallen victims to the same illusion .
I think I succeeded in leaving her more hopeful .
She acknowledged that the story , looked at from the point of common sense , did sound ridiculous ; and threatened me that if I ever breathed a word of it to anyone , she never would speak to me again .
She is a charming woman , as I have already mentioned .
By a curious coincidence I happened at the time to be one of Everett 's directors on a Company he had just promoted for taking over and developing the Red Sea Coasting trade .
I lunched with him the following Sunday .
He is an interesting talker , and curiosity to discover how so shrewd a man would account for his connection with so insane - so impossible a fancy , prompted me to hint my knowledge of the story .
The manner both of him and of his wife changed suddenly .
They wanted to know who it was had told me .
I refused the information , because it was evident they would have been angry with him .
Everett 's theory was that one of them had dreamt it - probably Camelford - and by hypnotic suggestion had conveyed to the rest of them the impression that they had dreamt it also .
He added that but for one slight incident he should have ridiculed from the very beginning the argument that it could have been anything else than a dream .
But what that incident was he would not tell me .
His object , as he explained , was not to dwell upon the business , but to try and forget it .
Speaking as a friend , he advised me , likewise , not to cackle about the matter any more than I could help , lest trouble should arise with regard to my director 's fees .
His way of putting things is occasionally blunt .
It was at the Everetts ' , later on , that I met Mrs. Camelford , one of the handsomest women I have ever set eyes upon .
It was foolish of me , but my memory for names is weak .
I forgot that Mr. and Mrs. Camelford were the other two concerned , and mentioned the story as a curious tale I had read years ago in an old Miscellany .
I had reckoned on it to lead me into a discussion with her on platonic friendship .
She jumped up from her chair and gave me a look .
I remembered then , and could have bitten out my tongue .
It took me a long while to make my peace , but she came round in the end , consenting to attribute my blunder to mere stupidity .
She was quite convinced herself , she told me , that the thing was pure imagination .
It was only when in company with the others that any doubt as to this crossed her mind .
Her own idea was that , if everybody would agree never to mention the matter again , it would end in their forgetting it .
She supposed it was her husband who had been my informant : he was just that sort of ass .
She did not say it unkindly .
She said when she was first married , ten years ago , few people had a more irritating effect upon her than had Camelford ; but that since she had seen more of other men she had come to respect him .
I like to hear a woman speak well of her husband .
It is a departure which , in my opinion , should be more encouraged than it is .
I assured her Camelford was not the culprit ; and on the understanding that I might come to see her - not too often - on her Thursdays , I agreed with her that the best thing I could do would be to dismiss the subject from my mind and occupy myself instead with questions that concerned myself .
I had never talked much with Camelford before that time , though I had often seen him at the Club .
He is a strange man , of whom many stories are told .
He writes journalism for a living , and poetry , which he publishes at his own expense , apparently for recreation .
It occurred to me that his theory would at all events be interesting ; but at first he would not talk at all , pretending to ignore the whole affair , as idle nonsense .
I had almost despaired of drawing him out , when one evening , of his own accord , he asked me if I thought Mrs. Armitage , with whom he knew I was on terms of friendship , still attached importance to the thing .
On my expressing the opinion that Mrs. Armitage was the most troubled of the group , he was irritated ; and urged me to leave the rest of them alone and devote whatever sense I might possess to persuading her in particular that the entire thing was and could be nothing but pure myth .
He confessed frankly that to him it was still a mystery .
He could easily regard it as chimera , but for one slight incident .
He would not for a long while say what that was , but there is such a thing as perseverance , and in the end I dragged it out of him .
This is what he told me .
" We happened by chance to find ourselves alone in the conservatory , that night of the ball - we six .
Most of the crowd had already left .
The last ' extra ' was being played : the music came to us faintly .
Stooping to pick up Jessica 's fan , which she had let fall to the ground , something shining on the tesselated pavement underneath a group of palms suddenly caught my eye .
We had not said a word to one another ; indeed , it was the first evening we had any of us met one another - that is , unless the thing was not a dream .
I picked it up .
The others gathered round me , and when we looked into one another 's eyes we understood : it was a broken wine - cup , a curious goblet of Bavarian glass .
It was the goblet out of which we had all dreamt that we had drunk . "
I have put the story together as it seems to me it must have happened .
The incidents , at all events , are facts .
Things have since occurred to those concerned affording me hope that they will never read it .
I should not have troubled to tell it at all , but that it has a moral .
Six persons sat round the great oak table in the wainscoted Speise Saal of that cosy hostelry , the Kneiper Hof at Konigsberg .
It was late into the night .
Under ordinary circumstances they would have been in bed , but having arrived by the last train from Dantzic , and having supped on German fare , it had seemed to them discreeter to remain awhile in talk .
The house was strangely silent .
The rotund landlord , leaving their candles ranged upon the sideboard , had wished them " Gute Nacht " an hour before .
The spirit of the ancient house enfolded them within its wings .
Here in this very chamber , if rumour is to be believed , Emmanuel Kant himself had sat discoursing many a time and oft .
The walls , behind which for more than forty years the little peak - faced man had thought and worked , rose silvered by the moonlight just across the narrow way ; the three high windows of the Speise Saal give out upon the old Cathedral tower beneath which now he rests .
Philosophy , curious concerning human phenomena , eager for experience , unhampered by the limitation Convention would impose upon all speculation , was in the smoky air .
" Not into future events , " remarked the Rev.
Nathaniel Armitage , " it is better they should be hidden from us .
But into the future of ourselves - our temperament , our character - I think we ought to be allowed to see .
At twenty we are one individual ; at forty , another person entirely , with other views , with other interests , a different outlook upon life , attracted by quite other attributes , repelled by the very qualities that once attracted us .
It is extremely awkward , for all of us . "
" I am glad to hear somebody else say that , " observed Mrs. Everett , in her gentle , sympathetic voice .
" I have thought it all myself so often .
Sometimes I have blamed myself , yet how can one help it : the things that appeared of importance to us , they become indifferent ; new voices call to us ; the idols we once worshipped , we see their feet of clay . "
" If under the head of idols you include me , " laughed the jovial Mr. Everett , " do n't hesitate to say so . "
He was a large red - faced gentleman , with small twinkling eyes , and a mouth both strong and sensuous .
" I did n't make my feet myself .
I never asked anybody to take me for a stained - glass saint .
It is not I who have changed . "
" I know , dear , it is I , " his thin wife answered with a meek smile .
" I was beautiful , there was no doubt about it , when you married me . "
" You were , my dear , " agreed her husband : " As a girl few could hold a candle to you . "
" It was the only thing about me that you valued , my beauty , " continued his wife ; " and it went so quickly .
I feel sometimes as if I had swindled you . "
" But there is a beauty of the mind , of the soul , " remarked the Rev.
Nathaniel Armitage , " that to some men is more attractive than mere physical perfection . "
The soft eyes of the faded lady shone for a moment with the light of pleasure .
" I am afraid Dick is not of that number , " she sighed .
" Well , as I said just now about my feet , " answered her husband genially , " I did n't make myself .
I always have been a slave to beauty and always shall be .
There would be no sense in pretending among chums that you have n't lost your looks , old girl . "
He laid his fine hand with kindly intent upon her bony shoulder .
" But there is no call for you to fret yourself as if you had done it on purpose .
No one but a lover imagines a woman growing more beautiful as she grows older . "
" Some women would seem to , " answered his wife .
Involuntarily she glanced to where Mrs. Camelford sat with elbows resting on the table ; and involuntarily also the small twinkling eyes of her husband followed in the same direction .
There is a type that reaches its prime in middle age .
Mrs. Camelford , nee Jessica Dearwood , at twenty had been an uncanny - looking creature , the only thing about her appealing to general masculine taste having been her magnificent eyes , and even these had frightened more than they had allured .
At forty , Mrs. Camelford might have posed for the entire Juno .
" Yes , he 's a cunning old joker is Time , " murmured Mr. Everett , almost inaudibly .
" What ought to have happened , " said Mrs. Armitage , while with deft fingers rolling herself a cigarette , " was for you and Nellie to have married . "
Mrs. Everett 's pale face flushed scarlet .
" My dear , " exclaimed the shocked Nathaniel Armitage , flushing likewise .
" Oh , why may one not sometimes speak the truth ? "
answered his wife petulantly .
" You and I are utterly unsuited to one another - everybody sees it .
At nineteen it seemed to me beautiful , holy , the idea of being a clergyman 's wife , fighting by his side against evil .
Besides , you have changed since then .
You were human , my dear Nat , in those days , and the best dancer I had ever met .
It was your dancing was your chief attraction for me as likely as not , if I had only known myself .
At nineteen how can one know oneself ? "
" We loved each other , " the Rev.
Armitage reminded her .
" I know we did , passionately - then ; but we do n't now . "
She laughed a little bitterly .
" Poor Nat !
I am only another trial added to your long list .
Your beliefs , your ideals are meaningless to me - mere narrow - minded dogmas , stifling thought .
Nellie was the wife Nature had intended for you , so soon as she had lost her beauty and with it all her worldly ideas .
Fate was maturing her for you , if only we had known .
As for me , I ought to have been the wife of an artist , of a poet . "
Unconsciously a glance from her ever restless eyes flashed across the table to where Horatio Camelford sat , puffing clouds of smoke into the air from a huge black meerschaum pipe .
" Bohemia is my country .
Its poverty , its struggle would have been a joy to me .
Breathing its free air , life would have been worth living . "
Horatio Camelford leant back with eyes fixed on the oaken ceiling .
" It is a mistake , " said Horatio Camelford , " for the artist ever to marry . "
The handsome Mrs. Camelford laughed good - naturedly .
" The artist , " remarked Mrs. Camelford , " from what I have seen of him would never know the inside of his shirt from the outside if his wife was not there to take it out of the drawer and put it over his head . "
" His wearing it inside out would not make much difference to the world , " argued her husband .
" The sacrifice of his art to the necessity of keeping his wife and family does . "
" Well , you at all events do not appear to have sacrificed much , my boy , " came the breezy voice of Dick Everett .
" Why , all the world is ringing with your name . "
" When I am forty - one , with all the best years of my life behind me , " answered the Poet .
" Speaking as a man , I have nothing to regret .
No one could have had a better wife ; my children are charming .
I have lived the peaceful existence of the successful citizen .
Had I been true to my trust I should have gone out into the wilderness , the only possible home of the teacher , the prophet .
The artist is the bridegroom of Art .
Marriage for him is an immorality .
Had I my time again I should remain a bachelor . "
" Time brings its revenges , you see , " laughed Mrs. Camelford .
" At twenty that fellow threatened to commit suicide if I would not marry him , and cordially disliking him I consented .
Now twenty years later , when I am just getting used to him , he calmly turns round and says he would have been better without me . "
" I heard something about it at the time , " said Mrs. Armitage .
" You were very much in love with somebody else , were you not ? "
" Is not the conversation assuming a rather dangerous direction ? "
laughed Mrs. Camelford .
" I was thinking the same thing , " agreed Mrs. Everett .
" One would imagine some strange influence had seized upon us , forcing us to speak our thoughts aloud . "
" I am afraid I was the original culprit , " admitted the Reverend Nathaniel .
" This room is becoming quite oppressive .
Had we not better go to bed ? "
The ancient lamp suspended from its smoke - grimed beam uttered a faint , gurgling sob , and spluttered out .
The shadow of the old Cathedral tower crept in and stretched across the room , now illuminated only by occasional beams from the cloud - curtained moon .
At the other end of the table sat a peak - faced little gentleman , clean - shaven , in full - bottomed wig .
" Forgive me , " said the little gentleman .
He spoke in English , with a strong accent .
" But it seems to me here is a case where two parties might be of service to one another . "
The six fellow - travellers round the table looked at one another , but none spoke .
The idea that came to each of them , as they explained to one another later , was that without remembering it they had taken their candles and had gone to bed .
This was surely a dream .
" It would greatly assist me , " continued the little peak - faced gentleman , " in experiments I am conducting into the phenomena of human tendencies , if you would allow me to put your lives back twenty years . "
Still no one of the six replied .
It seemed to them that the little old gentleman must have been sitting there among them all the time , unnoticed by them .
" Judging from your talk this evening , " continued the peak - faced little gentleman , " you should welcome my offer .
You appear to me to be one and all of exceptional intelligence .
You perceive the mistakes that you have made : you understand the causes .
The future veiled , you could not help yourselves .
What I propose to do is to put you back twenty years .
You will be boys and girls again , but with this difference : that the knowledge of the future , so far as it relates to yourselves , will remain with you .
" Come , " urged the old gentleman , " the thing is quite simple of accomplishment .
As - as a certain philosopher has clearly proved : the universe is only the result of our own perceptions .
By what may appear to you to be magic - by what in reality will be simply a chemical operation - I remove from your memory the events of the last twenty years , with the exception of what immediately concerns your own personalities .
You will retain all knowledge of the changes , physical and mental , that will be in store for you ; all else will pass from your perception . "
The little old gentleman took a small phial from his waistcoat pocket , and , filling one of the massive wine - glasses from a decanter , measured into it some half - a - dozen drops .
Then he placed the glass in the centre of the table .
" Youth is a good time to go back to , " said the peak - faced little gentleman , with a smile .
" Twenty years ago , it was the night of the Hunt Ball .
You remember it ? "
It was Everett who drank first .
He drank it with his little twinkling eyes fixed hungrily on the proud handsome face of Mrs. Camelford ; and then handed the glass to his wife .
It was she perhaps who drank from it most eagerly .
Her life with Everett , from the day when she had risen from a bed of sickness stripped of all her beauty , had been one bitter wrong .
She drank with the wild hope that the thing might possibly be not a dream ; and thrilled to the touch of the man she loved , as reaching across the table he took the glass from her hand .
Mrs. Armitage was the fourth to drink .
She took the cup from her husband , drank with a quiet smile , and passed it on to Camelford .
And Camelford drank , looking at nobody , and replaced the glass upon the table .
" Come , " said the little old gentleman to Mrs. Camelford , " you are the only one left .
The whole thing will be incomplete without you . "
" I have no wish to drink , " said Mrs. Camelford , and her eyes sought those of her husband , but he would not look at her .
" Come , " again urged the Figure .
And then Camelford looked at her and laughed drily .
" You had better drink , " he said .
" It 's only a dream . "
" If you wish it , " she answered .
And it was from his hands she took the glass .
It is from the narrative as Armitage told it to me that night in the Club smoking - room that I am taking most of my material .
It seemed to him that all things began slowly to rise upward , leaving him stationary , but with a great pain as though the inside of him were being torn away - the same sensation greatly exaggerated , so he likened it , as descending in a lift .
But around him all the time was silence and darkness unrelieved .
After a period that might have been minutes , that might have been years , a faint light crept towards him .
It grew stronger , and into the air which now fanned his cheek there stole the sound of far - off music .
The light and the music both increased , and one by one his senses came back to him .
He was seated on a low cushioned bench beneath a group of palms .
A young girl was sitting beside him , but her face was turned away from him .
" I did not catch your name , " he was saying .
" Would you mind telling it to me ? "
She turned her face towards him .
It was the most spiritually beautiful face he had ever seen .
" I am in the same predicament , " she laughed .
" You had better write yours on my programme , and I will write mine on yours . "
So they wrote upon each other 's programme and exchanged again .
The name she had written was Alice Blatchley .
He had never seen her before , that he could remember .
Yet at the back of his mind there dwelt the haunting knowledge of her .
Somewhere long ago they had met , talked together .
Slowly , as one recalls a dream , it came back to him .
In some other life , vague , shadowy , he had married this woman .
For the first few years they had loved each other ; then the gulf had opened between them , widened .
Stern , strong voices had called to him to lay aside his selfish dreams , his boyish ambitions , to take upon his shoulders the yoke of a great duty .
When more than ever he had demanded sympathy and help , this woman had fallen away from him .
His ideals but irritated her .
Only at the cost of daily bitterness had he been able to resist her endeavours to draw him from his path .
A face - that of a woman with soft eyes , full of helpfulness , shone through the mist of his dream - the face of a woman who would one day come to him out of the Future with outstretched hands that he would yearn to clasp .
" Shall we not dance ? "
said the voice beside him .
" I really wo n't sit out a waltz . "
They hurried into the ball - room .
With his arm about her form , her wondrous eyes shyly , at rare moments , seeking his , then vanishing again behind their drooping lashes , the brain , the mind , the very soul of the young man passed out of his own keeping .
She complimented him in her bewitching manner , a delightful blending of condescension and timidity .
" You dance extremely well , " she told him .
" You may ask me for another , later on . "
The words flashed out from that dim haunting future .
" Your dancing was your chief attraction for me , as likely as not , had I but known ? "
All that evening and for many months to come the Present and the Future fought within him .
And the experience of Nathaniel Armitage , divinity student , was the experience likewise of Alice Blatchley , who had fallen in love with him at first sight , having found him the divinest dancer she had ever whirled with to the sensuous music of the waltz ; of Horatio Camelford , journalist and minor poet , whose journalism earned him a bare income , but at whose minor poetry critics smiled ; of Jessica Dearwood , with her glorious eyes , and muddy complexion , and her wild hopeless passion for the big , handsome , ruddy - bearded Dick Everett , who , knowing it , only laughed at her in his kindly , lordly way , telling her with frank brutalness that the woman who was not beautiful had missed her vocation in life ; of that scheming , conquering young gentleman himself , who at twenty - five had already made his mark in the City , shrewd , clever , cool - headed as a fox , except where a pretty face and shapely hand or ankle were concerned ; of Nellie Fanshawe , then in the pride of her ravishing beauty , who loved none but herself , whose clay - made gods were jewels , and fine dresses and rich feasts , the envy of other women and the courtship of all mankind .
That evening of the ball each clung to the hope that this memory of the future was but a dream .
They had been introduced to one another ; had heard each other 's names for the first time with a start of recognition ; had avoided one another 's eyes ; had hastened to plunge into meaningless talk ; till that moment when young Camelford , stooping to pick up Jessica 's fan , had found that broken fragment of the Rhenish wine - glass .
Then it was that conviction refused to be shaken off , that knowledge of the future had to be sadly accepted .
What they had not foreseen was that knowledge of the future in no way affected their emotions of the present .
Nathaniel Armitage grew day by day more hopelessly in love with bewitching Alice Blatchley .
The thought of her marrying anyone else - the long - haired , priggish Camelford in particular - sent the blood boiling through his veins ; added to which sweet Alice , with her arms about his neck , would confess to him that life without him would be a misery hardly to be endured , that the thought of him as the husband of another woman - of Nellie Fanshawe in particular - was madness to her .
It was right perhaps , knowing what they did , that they should say good - bye to one another .
She would bring sorrow into his life .
Better far that he should put her away from him , that she should die of a broken heart , as she felt sure she would .
How could he , a fond lover , inflict this suffering upon her ?
He ought of course to marry Nellie Fanshawe , but he could not bear the girl .
Would it not be the height of absurdity to marry a girl he strongly disliked because twenty years hence she might be more suitable to him than the woman he now loved and who loved him ?
Nor could Nellie Fanshawe bring herself to discuss without laughter the suggestion of marrying on a hundred - and - fifty a year a curate that she positively hated .
There would come a time when wealth would be indifferent to her , when her exalted spirit would ask but for the satisfaction of self - sacrifice .
But that time had not arrived .
The emotions it would bring with it she could not in her present state even imagine .
Her whole present being craved for the things of this world , the things that were within her grasp .
To ask her to forego them now because later on she would not care for them !
it was like telling a schoolboy to avoid the tuck - shop because , when a man , the thought of stick - jaw would be nauseous to him .
If her capacity for enjoyment was to be short - lived , all the more reason for grasping joy quickly .
Alice Blatchley , when her lover was not by , gave herself many a headache trying to think the thing out logically .
Was it not foolish of her to rush into this marriage with dear Nat ?
At forty she would wish she had married somebody else .
But most women at forty - she judged from conversation round about her - wished they had married somebody else .
If every girl at twenty listened to herself at forty there would be no more marriage .
At forty she would be a different person altogether .
That other elderly person did not interest her .
To ask a young girl to spoil her life purely in the interests of this middle - aged party - it did not seem right .
Besides , whom else was she to marry ?
Camelford would not have her ; he did not want her then ; he was not going to want her at forty .
For practical purposes Camelford was out of the question .
She might marry somebody else altogether - and fare worse .
She might remain a spinster : she hated the mere name of spinster .
The inky - fingered woman journalist that , if all went well , she might become : it was not her idea .
Was she acting selfishly ?
Ought she , in his own interests , to refuse to marry dear Nat ?
Nellie - the little cat - who would suit him at forty , would not have him .
If he was going to marry anyone but Nellie he might as well marry her , Alice .
A bachelor clergyman !
it sounded almost improper .
Nor was dear Nat the type .
If she threw him over it would be into the arms of some designing minx .
What was she to do ?
Camelford at forty , under the influence of favourable criticism , would have persuaded himself he was a heaven - sent prophet , his whole life to be beautifully spent in the saving of mankind .
At twenty he felt he wanted to live .
Weird - looking Jessica , with her magnificent eyes veiling mysteries , was of more importance to him than the rest of the species combined .
Knowledge of the future in his ease only spurred desire .
The muddy complexion would grow pink and white , the thin limbs round and shapely ; the now scornful eyes would one day light with love at his coming .
It was what he had once hoped : it was what he now knew .
At forty the artist is stronger than the man ; at twenty the man is stronger than the artist .
An uncanny creature , so most folks would have described Jessica Dearwood .
Few would have imagined her developing into the good - natured , easy - going Mrs. Camelford of middle age .
The animal , so strong within her at twenty , at thirty had burnt itself out .
At eighteen , madly , blindly in love with red - bearded , deep - voiced Dick Everett she would , had he whistled to her , have flung herself gratefully at his feet , and this in spite of the knowledge forewarning her of the miserable life he would certainly lead her , at all events until her slowly developing beauty should give her the whip hand of him - by which time she would have come to despise him .
Fortunately , as she told herself , there was no fear of his doing so , the future notwithstanding .
Nellie Fanshawe 's beauty held him as with chains of steel , and Nellie had no intention of allowing her rich prize to escape her .
Her own lover , it was true , irritated her more than any man she had ever met , but at least he would afford her refuge from the bread of charity .
Jessica Dearwood , an orphan , had been brought up by a distant relative .
She had not been the child to win affection .
Of silent , brooding nature , every thoughtless incivility had been to her an insult , a wrong .
Acceptance of young Camelford seemed her only escape from a life that had become to her a martyrdom .
At forty - one he would wish he had remained a bachelor ; but at thirty - eight that would not trouble her .
She would know herself he was much better off as he was .
Meanwhile , she would have come to like him , to respect him .
He would be famous , she would be proud of him .
Crying into her pillow - she could not help it - for love of handsome Dick , it was still a comfort to reflect that Nellie Fanshawe , as it were , was watching over her , protecting her from herself .
Dick , as he muttered to himself a dozen times a day , ought to marry Jessica .
At thirty - eight she would be his ideal .
He looked at her as she was at eighteen , and shuddered .
Nellie at thirty would be plain and uninteresting .
But when did consideration of the future ever cry halt to passion : when did a lover ever pause thinking of the morrow ?
If her beauty was to quickly pass , was not that one reason the more urging him to possess it while it lasted ?
Nellie Fanshawe at forty would be a saint .
The prospect did not please her : she hated saints .
She would love the tiresome , solemn Nathaniel : of what use was that to her now ?
He did not desire her ; he was in love with Alice , and Alice was in love with him .
What would be the sense - even if they all agreed - in the three of them making themselves miserable for all their youth that they might be contented in their old age ?
Let age fend for itself and leave youth to its own instincts .
Let elderly saints suffer - it was their metier - and youth drink the cup of life .
It was a pity Dick was the only " catch " available , but he was young and handsome .
Other girls had to put up with sixty and the gout .
Another point , a very serious point , had been overlooked .
All that had arrived to them in that dim future of the past had happened to them as the results of their making the marriages they had made .
To what fate other roads would lead their knowledge could not tell them .
Nellie Fanshawe had become at forty a lovely character .
Might not the hard life she had led with her husband - a life calling for continual sacrifice , for daily self - control - have helped towards this end ?
As the wife of a poor curate of high moral principles , would the same result have been secured ?
The fever that had robbed her of her beauty and turned her thoughts inward had been the result of sitting out on the balcony of the Paris Opera House with an Italian Count on the occasion of a fancy dress ball .
As the wife of an East End clergyman the chances are she would have escaped that fever and its purifying effects .
Was there not danger in the position : a supremely beautiful young woman , worldly - minded , hungry for pleasure , condemned to a life of poverty with a man she did not care for ?
The influence of Alice upon Nathaniel Armitage , during those first years when his character was forming , had been all for good .
Could he be sure that , married to Nellie , he might not have deteriorated ?
Were Alice Blatchley to marry an artist could she be sure that at forty she would still be in sympathy with artistic ideals ?
Even as a child had not her desire ever been in the opposite direction to that favoured by her nurse ?
Did not the reading of Conservative journals invariably incline her towards Radicalism , and the steady stream of Radical talk round her husband 's table invariably set her seeking arguments in favour of the feudal system ?
Might it not have been her husband 's growing Puritanism that had driven her to crave for Bohemianism ?
Suppose that towards middle age , the wife of a wild artist , she suddenly " took religion , " as the saying is .
Her last state would be worse than the first .
Camelford was of delicate physique .
As an absent - minded bachelor with no one to give him his meals , no one to see that his things were aired , could he have lived till forty ?
Could he be sure that home life had not given more to his art than it had taken from it ?
Jessica Dearwood , of a nervous , passionate nature , married to a bad husband , might at forty have posed for one of the Furies .
Not until her life had become restful had her good looks shown themselves .
Hers was the type of beauty that for its development demands tranquillity .
Dick Everett had no delusions concerning himself .
That , had he married Jessica , he could for ten years have remained the faithful husband of a singularly plain wife he knew to be impossible .
But Jessica would have been no patient Griselda .
The extreme probability was that having married her at twenty for the sake of her beauty at thirty , at twenty - nine at latest she would have divorced him .
Everett was a man of practical ideas .
It was he who took the matter in hand .
The refreshment contractor admitted that curious goblets of German glass occasionally crept into their stock .
One of the waiters , on the understanding that in no case should he be called upon to pay for them , admitted having broken more than one wine - glass on that particular evening : thought it not unlikely he might have attempted to hide the fragments under a convenient palm .
The whole thing evidently was a dream .
So youth decided at the time , and the three marriages took place within three months of one another .
It was some ten years later that Armitage told me the story that night in the Club smoking - room .
Mrs. Everett had just recovered from a severe attack of rheumatic fever , contracted the spring before in Paris .
Mrs. Camelford , whom previously I had not met , certainly seemed to me one of the handsomest women I have ever seen .
Mrs. Armitage - I knew her when she was Alice Blatchley - I found more charming as a woman than she had been as a girl .
What she could have seen in Armitage I never could understand .
Camelford made his mark some ten years later : poor fellow , he did not live long to enjoy his fame .
Dick Everett has still another six years to work off ; but he is well behaved , and there is talk of a petition .
It is a curious story altogether , I admit .
As I said at the beginning , I do not myself believe it .
Through generations the power has descended , now weaker , now stronger .
And which way did the power run in the four - year - old in the garden , playing with a pie plate ?
the putnam tradition By S. DORMAN Illustrated by SCHELLING It was an old house not far from the coast , and had descended generation by generation to the women of the Putnam family .
Progress literally went by it : a new four - lane highway had been built two hundred yards from the ancient lilacs at the doorstep .
Long before that , in the time of Cecily Putnam 's husband , power lines had been run in , and now on cold nights the telephone wires sounded like a concert of cellos , while inside with a sound like the breaking of beetles , the grandmother Cecily moved through the walls in the grooves of tradition .
Simone Putnam , her granddaughter ; Nina Putnam , her great - granddaughter ; the unbroken succession of matriarchs continued , but times the old woman thought that in Simone it was weakened , and she looked at the four - year - old Nina askance , waiting , waiting , for some good sign .
Sometimes one of the Putnam women had given birth to a son , who grew sickly and died , or less often , grew healthy and fled .
The husbands were usually strangers to the land , the house , and the women , and spent a lifetime with the long - lived Putnam wives , and died , leaving their strange signs : telephone wires , electric lights , water pumps , brass plumbing .
Sam Harris came and married Simone , bringing with him an invasion of washer , dryer , toaster , mixer , coffeemaster , until the current poured through the walls of the house with more vigor than the blood in the old woman 's veins .
" You do n't approve of him , " Simone said to her grandmother .
" It 's his trade , " Cecily Putnam answered .
" Our men have been carpenters , or farmers , or even schoolmasters .
But an engineer .
Phui ! "
Simone was washing the dishes , gazing out across the windowsill where two pink and white Murex shells stood , to the tidy garden beyond where Nina was engaged in her private games .
She dried the dishes by passing her hand once above each plate or glass , bringing it to a dry sparkle .
It saved wear on the dishtowels , and it amused her .
" Sam 's not home very much , " she said in a placating voice .
She herself had grown terrified , since her marriage , that she would n't be able to bear the weight of her past .
She felt its power on her and could n't carry it .
Cecily had brought her up , after her father had disappeared and her mother had died in an unexplained accident .
Daily she saw the reflection of her failure in the face of her grandmother , who seemed built of the same seasoned and secure wood as the old Putnam house .
Simone looked at her grandmother , whom she loved , and became a mere vapor .
" He 's not home so much , " Simone said .
Her face was small , with a pointed chin , and she had golden - red hair which she wore loose on her shoulders .
Nina , too , had a small face , but it was neither so pale nor so delicate as her mother 's , as if Sam 's tougher substance had filled her out and strengthened her bone structure .
If it was true that she , Simone , was a weak link , then Sam 's strength might have poured into the child , and there would be no more Putnam family and tradition .
" People do n't change that easily , " the old woman said .
" But things - " Simone began .
The china which had a history of five generations slipped out of her hands and smashed ; Sam 's toaster would n't toast or pop up ; Simone could n't even use the telephone for fear of getting a wrong number , or no number at all .
" Things , things ! "
her grandmother cried .
" It 's blood that counts .
If the blood is strong enough , things dissolve .
They 're just garbage , all those things , floating on the surface of our history .
It 's our history that 's deep .
That 's what counts . "
" You 're afraid of Sam , " the young woman accused .
" Not afraid of any man ! "
Cecily said , straightening her back .
" But I 'm afraid for the child .
Sam has no family tradition , no depth , no talent handed down and perfected .
A man with his head full of wheels and wires . "
Simone loved him .
She leaned on him and grew about him , and he supported her tenderly .
She was n't going to give him up for the sake of some abstract tradition - " - it 's not abstract , " her grandmother said with spirit .
" It 's in your blood .
Or why do n't you sweep the floors the way other women do ?
The way Sam 's mother must ? "
Simone had begun to clean the house while she was thinking , moving her hand horizontally across the floor , at the height of her hip , and the dust was following the motion of her hand and moving in a small , sun - brightened river toward the trash basket in the kitchen corner .
Now Simone raised her hand to her face to look at it , and the river of dust rose like a serpent and hung a foot below her hand .
" Yes , " she agreed , " at least I can clean the house .
If I do n't touch the good china , and look where I 'm going . "
" Phui , " the old woman said again , angrily .
" Do n't feel so sorry for yourself . "
" Not for myself , " Simone mumbled , and looked again toward the garden where her daughter was doing something with three stones and a pie plate full of spring water .
" I do despair of Nina , " Cecily said , as she had said before .
" She 's four , and has no appearance .
Not even balance .
She fell out of the applerose tree , and could n't even help herself . "
Suddenly the old woman thrust her face close to her granddaughter .
It was smooth , round , and sweet as a young kernel of corn .
The eyes , sunk down under the bushy grey brows , were cold and clear grey .
" Simone , " the old woman said .
" You did n't lie to me ?
You did know she was falling , and could n't get back in time to catch her ? "
A shudder passed through Simone 's body .
There was no blood in her veins , only water ; no marrow in her bones , they were empty , and porous as a bird 's .
Even the roots of her hair were weak , and now the sweat was starting out on her scalp as she faced her grandmother and saw the bristling shapes of seven generations of Putnam women behind her .
" You lied , " the old woman said .
" You did n't know she was falling . "
Simone was a vapor , a mere froth blowing away on the first breeze .
" My poor dear , " the old woman said in a gentle voice .
" But how could you marry someone like Sam ?
Do n't you know what will happen ?
He 'll dissolve us , our history , our talents , our pride .
Nina is nothing but an ordinary little child . "
" She 's a good child , " Simone said , trying not to be angry .
She wanted her child to be loved , to be strong .
" Nina is n't a common child , " she said , with her head bent .
" She 's very bright . "
" A man with his head full of wheels , who 's at home with electricity and wires , " the old woman went on .
" We 've had them before , but never allowed them to dominate us .
My own husband was such a man , but he was only allowed to make token gestures , such as having the power lines put in .
He never understood how they worked . "
She lowered her voice to a whisper , " Your Sam understands .
I 've heard him talk to the water pump . "
" That 's why you 're afraid of him , " Simone said .
" Not because I 'm weak , and he might take something away from me , but because he 's strong , and he might give us something .
Then everything would change , and you 're afraid of that .
Nina might be our change . "
She pointed toward the garden .
Following the white line of her granddaughter 's finger , Cecily looked out into the garden and saw Nina turn toward them as though she knew they were angry .
The child pointed with one finger directly at them in the house .
There was a sharp crackle , and something of a brilliant and vibrating blue leaped between the out - stretched fingers of mother and daughter , and flew up like a bird to the power lines above .
" Mommy , " Nina called .
Simone 's heart nearly broke with wonder and fright .
Her grandmother contemptuously passed through the kitchen door and emerged on the step outside , but Simone opened the door and left it open behind her .
" What was that ? "
she asked Nina .
" Was it a bluebird ? "
" Do n't be silly , " Nina said .
She picked up the pie plate and brought it toward them .
Cecily 's face was white and translucent , one hand went to her throat as the child approached .
Brimfull of crackling blue fire with a fluctuating heart of yellow , the pie plate came toward them , held between Nina 's small , dusty hands .
Nina grinned at them .
" I stole it out of the wires , " she said .
Simone thought she would faint with a mixture of joy and fear .
" Put it back , " she whispered .
" Please put it back . "
" Oh Mommy , " Nina said , beginning to whine .
" Not now .
Not right away .
I just got it .
I 've done it lots of times . "
The pie plate crackled and hissed in the steady , small hands .
Simone could feel the old woman 's shocked silence behind her .
" You must n't carry it in a pie plate , it 's dangerous , " Simone said to her child , but she could see Nina was in no danger .
" How often have you done this ? "
She could feel her skirt and her hair billow with electricity .
" Lots of times .
You do n't like it , do you ? "
She became teasing and roguish , when she looked most like Sam .
Suddenly she threw back her head and opened her mouth , and tilting up the pie plate she drank it empty .
Her reddish gold hair sprang out in crackling rays around her face , her eyes flashed and sparks flew out between her teeth before she closed her mouth .
" Nina ! "
the old woman cried , and began to crumple , falling slowly against Simone in a complete faint .
Simone caught her in trembling hands and lowered her gently .
She said to her daughter , " You must n't do that in front of Grandy .
You 're a bad girl , you knew it would scare her , " and to herself she said : I must stop babbling , the child knows I 'm being silly .
O is n't it wonderful , is n't it awful , O Sam , how I love you .
" Daddy said it would scare you , " Nina admitted .
" That 's why I never showed you before . "
Her hair was softly falling into place again , and she was gazing curiously at her great - grandmother lying on the doorstep .
" It did scare me , " Simone said .
" I 'm not used to it , darling .
But do n't keep it secret any more . "
" Is Grandy asleep ? "
Simone said hastily , " Oh yes , she 's taking a nap .
She is old , you know , and likes to take naps . "
" That 's not a nap , " Nina said , leaning over and patting the old woman 's cheek , " I think she 's having a bad dream . "
Simone carried her grandmother into the house .
If that old , tired heart had jumped and floundered like her own , there must be some damage done to it .
If anything happened to her grandmother , the world would end , Simone thought , and was furious with Nina , and at the same time , full of joy for her .
Cecily Putnam opened her eyes widely , and Simone said , " It does change , you see .
But it 's in the family , after all . "
The old woman sat upright quickly .
" That wicked child ! "
she exclaimed .
" To come and frighten us like that .
She ought to be spanked . "
She got up with great strength and rushed out to the garden .
" Nina ! "
she called imperiously .
The child picked up one of the small stones from the pie plate now full of spring water , and came to her great - grandmother .
" I 'll make something for you , Grandy , " she said seriously .
She put the stone in the palm of her hand , and breathed on it , and then held out her hand and offered the diamond .
" It 's lovely .
Thank you , " the old woman said with dignity , and put her hand on the child 's head .
" Let 's go for a walk and I 'll show you how to grow rose - apples .
That 's more becoming to a young lady . "
" You slept on the step . "
" Ah !
I 'm old and I like to take little naps , " Cecily answered .
Simone saw them disappear among the applerose trees side by side .
She was still trembling , but gradually , as she passed her hand back and forth , and the dust followed , moving in a sparkling river toward the trash basket , Simone stopped trembling and began to smile with the natural pride of a Putnam woman .
THE END
I HAVE attained my ideal : I am a roadmender , some say stonebreaker .
Both titles are correct , but the one is more pregnant than the other .
All day I sit by the roadside on a stretch of grass under a high hedge of saplings and a tangle of traveller 's joy , woodbine , sweetbrier , and late roses .
Opposite me is a white gate , seldom used , if one may judge from the trail of honeysuckle growing tranquilly along it : I know now that whenever and wherever I die my soul will pass out through this white gate ; and then , thank God , I shall not have need to undo that trail .
In our youth we discussed our ideals freely : I wonder how many beside myself have attained , or would understand my attaining .
After all , what do we ask of life , here or indeed hereafter , but leave to serve , to live , to commune with our fellowmen and with ourselves ; and from the lap of earth to look up into the face of God ?
All these gifts are mine as I sit by the winding white road and serve the footsteps of my fellows .
There is no room in my life for avarice or anxiety ; I who serve at the altar live of the altar : I lack nothing but have nothing over ; and when the winter of life comes I shall join the company of weary old men who sit on the sunny side of the workhouse wall and wait for the tender mercies of God .
Just now it is the summer of things ; there is life and music everywhere - in the stones themselves , and I live to - day beating out the rhythmical hammer - song of The Ring .
There is real physical joy in the rise and swing of the arm , in the jar of a fair stroke , the split and scatter of the quartz : I am learning to be ambidextrous , for why should Esau sell his birthright when there is enough for both ?
Then the rest - hour comes , bringing the luxurious ache of tired but not weary limbs ; and I lie outstretched and renew my strength , sometimes with my face deep - nestled in the cool green grass , sometimes on my back looking up into the blue sky which no wise man would wish to fathom .
The birds have no fear of me ; am I not also of the brown brethren in my sober fustian livery ?
They share my meals - at least the little dun - coated Franciscans do ; the blackbirds and thrushes care not a whit for such simple food as crumbs , but with legs well apart and claws tense with purchase they disinter poor brother worm , having first mocked him with sound of rain .
The robin that lives by the gate regards my heap of stones as subject to his special inspection .
He sits atop and practises the trill of his summer song until it shrills above and through the metallic clang of my strokes ; and when I pause he cocks his tail , with a humorous twinkle of his round eye which means - " What !
shirking , big brother ? "
- and I fall , ashamed , to my mending of roads .
The other day , as I lay with my face in the grass , I heard a gentle rustle , and raised my head to find a hedge - snake watching me fearless , unwinking .
I stretched out my hand , picked it up unresisting , and put it in my coat like the husbandman of old .
Was he so ill - rewarded , I wonder , with the kiss that reveals secrets ?
My snake slept in peace while I hammered away with an odd quickening of heart as I thought how to me , as to Melampus , had come the messenger - had come , but to ears deafened by centuries of misrule , blindness , and oppression ; so that , with all my longing , I am shut out of the wondrous world where walked Melampus and the Saint .
To me there is no suggestion of evil in the little silent creatures , harmless , or deadly only with the Death which is Life .
The beasts who turn upon us , as a rule maul and tear unreflectingly ; with the snake there is the swift , silent strike , the tiny , tiny wound , then sleep and a forgetting .
My brown friend , with its message unspoken , slid away into the grass at sundown to tell its tale in unstopped ears ; and I , my task done , went home across the fields to the solitary cottage where I lodge .
It is old and decrepit - two rooms , with a quasi - attic over them reached by a ladder from the kitchen and reached only by me .
It is furnished with the luxuries of life , a truckle bed , table , chair , and huge earthenware pan which I fill from the ice - cold well at the back of the cottage .
Morning and night I serve with the Gibeonites , their curse my blessing , as no doubt it was theirs when their hearts were purged by service .
Morning and night I send down the moss - grown bucket with its urgent message from a dry and dusty world ; the chain tightens through my hand as the liquid treasure responds to the messenger , and then with creak and jangle - the welcome of labouring earth - the bucket slowly nears the top and disperses the treasure in the waiting vessels .
The Gibeonites were servants in the house of God , ministers of the sacrament of service even as the High Priest himself ; and I , sharing their high office of servitude , thank God that the ground was accursed for my sake , for surely that curse was the womb of all unborn blessing .
The old widow with whom I lodge has been deaf for the last twenty years .
She speaks in the strained high voice which protests against her own infirmity , and her eyes have the pathetic look of those who search in silence .
For many years she lived alone with her son , who laboured on the farm two miles away .
He met his death rescuing a carthorse from its burning stable ; and the farmer gave the cottage rent free and a weekly half - crown for life to the poor old woman whose dearest terror was the workhouse .
With my shilling a week rent , and sharing of supplies , we live in the lines of comfort .
Of death she has no fears , for in the long chest in the kitchen lie a web of coarse white linen , two pennies covered with the same to keep down tired eyelids , decent white stockings , and a white cotton sun - bonnet - a decorous death - suit truly - and enough money in the little bag for self - respecting burial .
The farmer buried his servant handsomely - good man , he knew the love of reticent grief for a ' kind ' burial - and one day Harry 's mother is to lie beside him in the little churchyard which has been a cornfield , and may some day be one again .
CHAPTER II ON Sundays my feet take ever the same way .
First my temple service , and then five miles tramp over the tender , dewy fields , with their ineffable earthy smell , until I reach the little church at the foot of the grey - green down .
Here , every Sunday , a young priest from a neighbouring village says Mass for the tiny hamlet , where all are very old or very young - for the heyday of life has no part under the long shadow of the hills , but is away at sea or in service .
There is a beautiful seemliness in the extreme youth of the priest who serves these aged children of God .
He bends to communicate them with the reverent tenderness of a son , and reads with the careful intonation of far - seeing love .
To the old people he is the son of their old age , God - sent to guide their tottering footsteps along the highway of foolish wayfarers ; and he , with his youth and strength , wishes no better task .
Service ended , we greet each other friendly - for men should not be strange in the acre of God ; and I pass through the little hamlet and out and up on the grey down beyond .
Here , at the last gate , I pause for breakfast ; and then up and on with quickening pulse , and evergreen memory of the weary war - worn Greeks who broke rank to greet the great blue Mother - way that led to home .
I stand on the summit hatless , the wind in my hair , the smack of salt on my cheek , all round me rolling stretches of cloud - shadowed down , no sound but the shrill mourn of the peewit and the gathering of the sea .
The hours pass , the shadows lengthen , the sheep - bells clang ; and I lie in my niche under the stunted hawthorn watching the to and fro of the sea , and olus shepherding his white sheep across the blue .
I love the sea with its impenetrable fathoms , its wash and undertow , and rasp of shingle sucked anew .
I love it for its secret dead in the Caverns of Peace , of which account must be given when the books are opened and earth and heaven have fled away .
Yet in my love there is a paradox , for as I watch the restless , ineffective waves I think of the measureless , reflective depths of the still and silent Sea of Glass , of the dead , small and great , rich or poor , with the works which follow them , and of the Voice as the voice of many waters , when the multitude of one mind rends heaven with alleluia : and I lie so still that I almost feel the kiss of White Peace on my mouth .
Later still , when the flare of the sinking sun has died away and the stars rise out of a veil of purple cloud , I take my way home , down the slopes , through the hamlet , and across miles of sleeping fields ; over which night has thrown her shifting web of mist - home to the little attic , the deep , cool well , the kindly wrinkled face with its listening eyes - peace in my heart and thankfulness for the rhythm of the road .
Monday brings the joy of work , second only to the Sabbath of rest , and I settle to my heap by the white gate .
Soon I hear the distant stamp of horsehoofs , heralding the grind and roll of the wheels which reaches me later - a heavy flour - waggon with a team of four great gentle horses , gay with brass trappings and scarlet ear - caps .
On the top of the craftily piled sacks lies the white - clad waggoner , a pink in his mouth which he mumbles meditatively , and the reins looped over the inactive whip - why should he drive a willing team that knows the journey and responds as strenuously to a cheery chirrup as to the well - directed lash ?
We greet and pass the time of day , and as he mounts the rise he calls back a warning of coming rain .
I am already white with dust as he with flour , sacramental dust , the outward and visible sign of the stir and beat of the heart of labouring life .
Next to pass down the road is an anxious ruffled hen , her speckled breast astir with maternal troubles .
She walks delicately , lifting her feet high and glancing furtively from side to side with comb low dressed .
The sight of man , the heartless egg - collector , from whose haunts she has fled , wrings from her a startled cluck , and she makes for the white gate , climbs through , and disappears .
I know her feelings too well to intrude .
Many times already has she hidden herself , amassed four or five precious treasures , brooding over them with anxious hope ; and then , after a brief desertion to seek the necessary food , she has returned to find her efforts at concealment vain , her treasures gone .
At last , with the courage of despair she has resolved to brave the terrors of the unknown and seek a haunt beyond the tyranny of man .
I will watch over her from afar , and when her mother - hope is fulfilled I will marshal her and her brood back to the farm where she belongs ; for what end I care not to think , it is of the mystery which lies at the heart of things ; and we are all God 's beasts , says St Augustine .
Here is my stone - song , a paraphrase of the Treasure Motif .
[ Picture : Music score : F # dotted crotchet , F # quaver , F # quaver , F # dotted crotchet , D crotchet , E crotchet .
This bar is then repeated once more ] What a wonderful work Wagner has done for humanity in translating the toil of life into the readable script of music !
For those who seek the tale of other worlds his magic is silent ; but earth - travail under his wand becomes instinct with rhythmic song to an accompaniment of the elements , and the blare and crash of the bottomless pit itself .
The Pilgrim 's March is the sad sound of footsore men ; the San Graal the tremulous yearning of servitude for richer , deeper bondage .
The yellow , thirsty flames lick up the willing sacrifice , the water wails the secret of the river and the sea ; the birds and beasts , the shepherd with his pipe , the underground life in rocks and caverns , all cry their message to this nineteenth - century toiling , labouring world - and to me as I mend my road .
Two tramps come and fling themselves by me as I eat my noonday meal .
The one , red - eyed , furtive , lies on his side with restless , clutching hands that tear and twist and torture the living grass , while his lips mutter incoherently .
The other sits stooped , bare - footed , legs wide apart , his face grey , almost as grey as his stubbly beard ; and it is not long since Death looked him in the eyes .
He tells me querulously of a two hundred miles tramp since early spring , of search for work , casual jobs with more kicks than halfpence , and a brief but blissful sojourn in a hospital bed , from which he was dismissed with sentence passed upon him .
For himself , he is determined to die on the road under a hedge , where a man can see and breathe .
His anxiety is all for his fellow ; he has said he will " do for a man " ; he wants to " swing , " to get out of his " dog 's life . "
I watch him as he lies , this Ishmael and would - be Lamech .
Ignorance , hunger , terror , the exhaustion of past generations , have done their work .
The man is mad , and would kill his fellowman .
Presently we part , and the two go , dogged and footsore , down the road which is to lead them into the great silence .
CHAPTER III YESTERDAY was a day of encounters .
First , early in the morning , a young girl came down the road on a bicycle .
Her dressguard was loose , and she stopped to ask for a piece of string .
When I had tied it for her she looked at me , at my worn dusty clothes and burnt face ; and then she took a Niphetos rose from her belt and laid it shyly in my dirty disfigured palm .
I bared my head , and stood hat in hand looking after her as she rode away up the hill .
Then I took my treasure and put it in a nest of cool dewy grass under the hedge .
Ecce ancilla Domini .
My next visitor was a fellow - worker on his way to a job at the cross - roads .
He stood gazing meditatively at my heap of stones .
" Ow long ' ave yer bin at this job that y'ere in such a hurry ? "
I stayed my hammer to answer - " Four months . "
" Seen better days ? "
" Never , " I said emphatically , and punctuated the remark with a stone split neatly in four .
The man surveyed me in silence for a moment ; then he said slowly , " Mean ter say yer like crackin ' these blamed stones to fill ' oles some other fool 's made ? "
I nodded .
" Well , that beats everything .
Now , I ' ave seen better days ; worked in a big brewery over near Maidstone - a town that , and something doing ; and now , ' ere I am , ' ammering me ' eart out on these blasted stones for a bit o ' bread and a pipe o ' baccy once a week - it ai n't good enough . "
He pulled a blackened clay from his pocket and began slowly filling it with rank tobacco ; then he lit it carefully behind his battered hat , put the spent match back in his pocket , rose to his feet , hitched his braces , and , with a silent nod to me , went on to his job .
Why do we give these tired children , whose minds move slowly , whose eyes are holden that they can not read the Book , whose hearts are full of sore resentment against they know not what , such work as this to do - hammering their hearts out for a bit of bread ?
All the pathos of unreasoning labour rings in these few words .
We fit the collar on unwilling necks ; and when their service is over we bid them go out free ; but we break the good Mosaic law and send them away empty .
What wonder there is so little willing service , so few ears ready to be thrust through against the master 's door .
The swift stride of civilisation is leaving behind individual effort , and turning man into the Dmon of a machine .
To and fro in front of the long loom , lifting a lever at either end , paces he who once with painstaking intelligence drove the shuttle .
Then he tasted the joy of completed work , that which his eye had looked upon , and his hands had handled ; now his work is as little finished as the web of Penelope .
Once the reaper grasped the golden corn stems , and with dexterous sweep of sickle set free the treasure of the earth .
Once the creatures of the field were known to him , and his eye caught the flare of scarlet and blue as the frail poppies and sturdy corn - cockles laid down their beauty at his feet ; now he sits serene on Juggernaut 's car , its guiding Dmon , and the field is silent to him .
As with the web and the grain so with the wood and stone in the treasure - house of our needs .
The ground was accursed for our sake that in the sweat of our brow we might eat bread .
Now the many live in the brain - sweat of the few ; and it must be so , for as little as great King Cnut could stay the sea until it had reached the appointed place , so little can we raise a barrier to the wave of progress , and say , " Thus far and no further shalt thou come . "
What then ?
This at least ; if we live in an age of mechanism let us see to it that we are a race of intelligent mechanics ; and if man is to be the Dmon of a machine let him know the setting of the knives , the rise of the piston , the part that each wheel and rod plays in the economy of the whole , the part that he himself plays , co - operating with it .
Then , when he has lived and served intelligently , let us give him of our flocks and of our floor that he may learn to rest in the lengthening shadows until he is called to his work above .
So I sat , hammering out my thoughts , and with them the conviction that stonebreaking should be allotted to minor poets or vagrant children of nature like myself , never to such tired folk as my poor mate at the cross - roads and his fellows .
At noon , when I stopped for my meal , the sun was baking the hard white road in a pitiless glare .
Several waggons and carts passed , the horses sweating and straining , with drooping , fly - tormented ears .
The men for the most part nodded slumberously on the shaft , seeking the little shelter the cart afforded ; but one shuffled in the white dust , with an occasional chirrup and friendly pressure on the tired horse 's neck .
Then an old woman and a small child appeared in sight , both with enormous sun - bonnets and carrying baskets .
As they came up with me the woman stopped and swept her face with her hand , while the child , depositing the basket in the dust with great care , wiped her little sticky fingers on her pinafore .
Then the shady hedge beckoned them and they came and sat down near me .
The woman looked about seventy , tall , angular , dauntless , good for another ten years of hard work .
The little maid - her only grandchild , she told me - was just four , her father away soldiering , and the mother died in childbed , so for four years the child had known no other guardian or playmate than the old woman .
She was not the least shy , but had the strange self - possession which comes from associating with one who has travelled far on life 's journey .
" I could n't leave her alone in the house , " said her grandmother , " and she would n't leave the kitten for fear it should be lonesome " - with a humorous , tender glance at the child - " but it 's a long tramp in the heat for the little one , and we 've another mile to go . "
" Will you let her bide here till you come back ? "
I said .
" She 'll be all right by me . "
The old lady hesitated .
" Will ' ee stay by him , dearie ? "
she said .
The small child nodded , drew from her miniature pocket a piece of sweetstuff , extracted from the basket a small black cat , and settled in for the afternoon .
Her grandmother rose , took her basket , and , with a nod and " Thank ' ee kindly , mister , " went off down the road .
I went back to my work a little depressed - why had I not white hair ?
- for a few minutes had shown me that I was not old enough for the child despite my forty years .
She was quite happy with the little black cat , which lay in the small lap blinking its yellow eyes at the sun ; and presently an old man came by , lame and bent , with gnarled twisted hands , leaning heavily on his stick .
He greeted me in a high , piping voice , limped across to the child , and sat down .
" Your little maid , mister ? "
he said .
I explained .
" Ah , " he said , " I 've left a little darlin ' like this at ' ome .
It 's ' ard on us old folks when we 're one too many ; but the little mouths must be filled , and my son , ' e said ' e did n't see they could keep me on the arf - crown , with another child on the way ; so I 'm tramping to N - , to the House ; but it 's a ' ard pinch , leavin ' the little ones . "
I looked at him - a typical countryman , with white hair , mild blue eyes , and a rosy , childish , unwrinkled face .
" I 'm eighty - four , " he went on , " and terrible bad with the rheumatics and my chest .
Maybe it 'll not be long before the Lord remembers me . "
The child crept close and put a sticky little hand confidingly into the tired old palm .
The two looked strangely alike , for the world seems much the same to those who leave it behind as to those who have but taken the first step on its circular pathway .
" ' Ook at my kitty , " she said , pointing to the small creature in her lap .
Then , as the old man touched it with trembling fingers she went on - " ' Oo is n't my grandad ; he 's away in the sky , but I 'll kiss ' oo . "
I worked on , hearing at intervals the old piping voice and the child - treble , much of a note ; and thinking of the blessings vouchsafed to the simple old age which crowns a harmless working - life spent in the fields .
The two under the hedge had everything in common and were boundlessly content together , the sting of the knowledge of good and evil past for the one , and for the other still to come ; while I stood on the battlefield of the world , the flesh , and the devil , though , thank God , with my face to the foe .
The old man sat resting : I had promised him a lift with my friend the driver of the flour - cart , and he was almost due when the child 's grandmother came down the road .
When she saw my other visitor she stood amazed .
" What , Richard Hunton , that worked with my old man years ago up at Ditton , whatever are you doin' all these miles from your own place ? "
" Is it Eliza Jakes ? "
He looked at her dazed , doubtful .
" An ' who else should it be ?
Where 's your memory gone , Richard Hunton , and you not such a great age either ?
Where are you stayin ' ? "
Shame overcame him ; his lips trembled , his mild blue eyes filled with tears .
I told the tale as I had heard it , and Mrs Jakes 's indignation was good to see .
" Not keep you on ' alf a crown !
Send you to the House !
May the Lord forgive them !
You would n't eat no more than a fair - sized cat , and not long for this world either , that 's plain to see .
No , Richard Hunton , you do n't go to the House while I 'm above ground ; it 'd make my good man turn to think of it .
You 'll come ' ome with me and the little ' un there .
I 've my washin ' , and a bit put by for a rainy day , and a bed to spare , and the Lord and the parson will see I do n't come to want . "
She stopped breathless , her defensive motherhood in arms .
The old man said quaveringly , in the pathetic , grudging phrase of the poor , which veils their gratitude while it testifies their independence , " Maybe I might as well . "
He rose with difficulty , picked up his bundle and stick , the small child replaced the kitten in its basket , and thrust her hand in her new friend 's .
" Then ' oo is grandad tum back , " she said .
Mrs Jakes had been fumbling in her pocket , and extracted a penny , which she pressed on me .
" It 's little enough , mister , " she said .
Then , as I tried to return it : " Nay , I 've enough , and yours is poor paid work . "
I hope I shall always be able to keep that penny ; and as I watched the three going down the dusty white road , with the child in the middle , I thanked God for the Brotherhood of the Poor .
CHAPTER IV YESTERDAY a funeral passed , from the work - house at N - , a quaint sepulture without solemnities .
The rough , ungarnished coffin of stained deal lay bare and unsightly on the floor of an old market - cart ; a woman sat beside , steadying it with her feet .
The husband drove ; and the most depressed of the three was the horse , a broken - kneed , flea - bitten grey .
It was pathetic , this bringing home in death of the old father whom , while he lived , they had been too poor to house ; it was at no small sacrifice that they had spared him that terror of old age , a pauper 's grave , and brought him to lie by his wife in our quiet churchyard .
They felt no emotion , this husband and wife , only a dull sense of filial duty done , respectability preserved ; and above and through all , the bitter but necessary counting the cost of this last bed .
It is strange how pagan many of us are in our beliefs .
True , the funeral libations have made way for the comfortable bake - meats ; still , to the large majority Death is Pluto , king of the dark Unknown whence no traveller returns , rather than Azrael , brother and friend , lord of this mansion of life .
Strange how men shun him as he waits in the shadow , watching our puny straining after immortality , sending his comrade sleep to prepare us for himself .
When the hour strikes he comes - very gently , very tenderly , if we will but have it so - folds the tired hands together , takes the way - worn feet in his broad strong palm ; and lifting us in his wonderful arms he bears us swiftly down the valley and across the waters of Remembrance .
Very pleasant art thou , O Brother Death , thy love is wonderful , passing the love of women .
To - day I have lived in a whirl of dust .
To - morrow is the great annual Cattle Fair at E - , and through the long hot hours the beasts from all the district round have streamed in broken procession along my road , to change hands or to die .
Surely the lordship over creation implies wise and gentle rule for intelligent use , not the pursuit of a mere immediate end , without any thought of community in the great sacrament of life .
For the most part mystery has ceased for this working Western world , and with it reverence .
Coventry Patmore says : " God clothes Himself actually and literally with His whole creation .
Herbs take up and assimilate minerals , beasts assimilate herbs , and God , in the Incarnation and its proper Sacrament , assimilates us , who , says St Augustine , ' are God 's beasts . ' "
It is man in his blind self - seeking who separates woof from weft in the living garment of God , and loses the more as he neglects the outward and visible signs of a world - wide grace .
In olden days the herd led his flock , going first in the post of danger to defend the creatures he had weaned from their natural habits for his various uses .
Now that good relationship has ceased for us to exist , man drives the beasts before him , means to his end , but with no harmony between end and means .
All day long the droves of sheep pass me on their lame and patient way , no longer freely and instinctively following a protector and forerunner , but driven , impelled by force and resistless will - the same will which once went before without force .
They are all trimmed as much as possible to one pattern , and all make the same sad plaint .
It is a day on which to thank God for the unknown tongue .
The drover and his lad in dusty blue coats plod along stolidly , deaf and blind to all but the way before them ; no longer wielding the crook , instrument of deliverance , or at most of gentle compulsion , but armed with a heavy stick and mechanically dealing blows on the short thick fleeces ; without evil intent because without thought - it is the ritual of the trade .
Of all the poor dumb pilgrims of the road the bullocks are the most terrible to see .
They are not patient , but go most unwillingly with lowered head and furtive sideways motion , in their eyes a horror of great fear .
The sleek cattle , knee deep in pasture , massed at the gate , and stared mild - eyed and with inquiring bellow at the retreating drove ; but these passed without answer on to the Unknown , and for them it spelt death .
Behind a squadron of sleek , well - fed cart - horses , formed in fours , with straw braid in mane and tail , came the ponies , for the most part a merry company .
Long strings of rusty , shaggy two - year - olds , unbroken , unkempt , the short Down grass still sweet on their tongues ; full of fun , frolic , and wickedness , biting and pulling , casting longing eyes at the hedgerows .
The boys appear to recognise them as kindred spirits , and are curiously forbearing and patient .
Soon both ponies and boys vanish in a white whirl , and a long line of carts , which had evidently waited for the dust to subside , comes slowly up the incline .
For the most part they carry the pigs and fowls , carriage folk of the road .
The latter are hot , crowded , and dusty under the open netting ; the former for the most part cheerfully remonstrative .
I drew a breath of relief as the noise of wheels died away and my road sank into silence .
The hedgerows are no longer green but white and choked with dust , a sight to move good sister Rain to welcome tears .
The birds seem to have fled before the noisy confusion .
I wonder whether my snake has seen and smiled at the clumsy ruling of the lord he so little heeds ?
I turned aside through the gate to plunge face and hands into the cool of the sheltered grass that side the hedge , and then rested my eyes on the stretch of green I had lacked all day .
The rabbits had apparently played and browsed unmindful of the stir , and were still flirting their white tails along the hedgerows ; a lark rose , another and another , and I went back to my road .
Peace still reigned , for the shadows were lengthening , and there would be little more traffic for the fair .
I turned to my work , grateful for the stillness , and saw on the white stretch of road a lone old man and a pig .
Surely I knew that tall figure in the quaint grey smock , surely I knew the face , furrowed like nature 's face in springtime , and crowned by a round , soft hat ?
And the pig , the black pig walking decorously free ?
Ay , I knew them .
In the early spring I took a whole holiday and a long tramp ; and towards afternoon , tired and thirsty , sought water at a little lonely cottage whose windows peered and blinked under overhanging brows of thatch .
I had , not the water I asked for , but milk and a bowl of sweet porridge for which I paid only thanks ; and stayed for a chat with my kindly hosts .
They were a quaint old couple of the kind rarely met with nowadays .
They enjoyed a little pension from the Squire and a garden in which vegetables and flowers lived side by side in friendliest fashion .
Bees worked and sang over the thyme and marjoram , blooming early in a sunny nook ; and in a homely sty lived a solemn black pig , a pig with a history .
It was no common utilitarian pig , but the honoured guest of the old couple , and it knew it .
A year before , their youngest and only surviving child , then a man of five - and - twenty , had brought his mother the result of his savings in the shape of a fine young pig : a week later he lay dead of the typhoid that scourged Maidstone .
Hence the pig was sacred , cared for and loved by this Darby and Joan .
" Ee be mos ' like a child to me and the mother , an ' mos ' as sensible as a Christian , ee be , " the old man had said ; and I could hardly credit my eyes when I saw the tall bent figure side by side with the black pig , coming along my road on such a day .
I hailed the old man , and both turned aside ; but he gazed at me without remembrance .
I spoke of the pig and its history .
He nodded wearily .
" Ay , ay , lad , you 've got it ; ' tis poor Dick 's pig right enow . "
" But you 're never going to take it to E - ? "
" Ay , but I be , and comin ' back alone , if the Lord be marciful .
The missus has been terrible bad this two mouths and more ; Squire 's in foreign parts ; and food - stuffs such as the old woman wants is hard buying for poor folks .
The stocking 's empty , now ' tis the pig must go , and I believe he 'd be glad for to do the missus a turn ; she were terrible good to him , were the missus , and fond , too .
I dursn't tell her he was to go ; she 'd sooner starve than lose poor Dick 's pig .
Well , we 'd best be movin ' ; ' tis a fairish step . "
The pig followed comprehending and docile , and as the quaint couple passed from sight I thought I heard Brother Death stir in the shadow .
He is a strong angel and of great pity .
CHAPTER V THERE is always a little fire of wood on the open hearth in the kitchen when I get home at night ; the old lady says it is " company " for her , and sits in the lonely twilight , her knotted hands lying quiet on her lap , her listening eyes fixed on the burning sticks .
I wonder sometimes whether she hears music in the leap and lick of the fiery tongues , music such as he of Bayreuth draws from the violins till the hot energy of the fire spirit is on us , embodied in sound .
Surely she hears some voice , that lonely old woman on whom is set the seal of great silence ?
It is a great truth tenderly said that God builds the nest for the blind bird ; and may it not be that He opens closed eyes and unstops deaf ears to sights and sounds from which others by these very senses are debarred ?
Here the best of us see through a mist of tears men as trees walking ; it is only in the land which is very far off and yet very near that we shall have fulness of sight and see the King in His beauty ; and I can not think that any listening ears listen in vain .
The coppice at our back is full of birds , for it is far from the road and they nest there undisturbed year after year .
Through the still night I heard the nightingales calling , calling , until I could bear it no longer and went softly out into the luminous dark .
The little wood was manifold with sound , I heard my little brothers who move by night rustling in grass and tree .
A hedgehog crossed my path with a dull squeak , the bats shrilled high to the stars , a white owl swept past me crying his hunting note , a beetle boomed suddenly in my face ; and above and through it all the nightingales sang - and sang !
The night wind bent the listening trees , and the stars yearned earthward to hear the song of deathless love .
Louder and louder the wonderful notes rose and fell in a passion of melody ; and then sank to rest on that low thrilling call which it is said Death once heard , and stayed his hand .
They will scarcely sing again this year , these nightingales , for they are late on the wing as it is .
It seems as if on such nights they sang as the swan sings , knowing it to be the last time - with the lavish note of one who bids an eternal farewell .
At last there was silence .
Sitting under the big beech tree , the giant of the coppice , I rested my tired self in the lap of mother earth , breathed of her breath and listened to her voice in the quickening silence until my flesh came again as the flesh of a little child , for it is true recreation to sit at the footstool of God wrapped in a fold of His living robe , the while night smoothes our tired face with her healing hands .
The grey dawn awoke and stole with trailing robes across earth 's floor .
At her footsteps the birds roused from sleep and cried a greeting ; the sky flushed and paled conscious of coming splendour ; and overhead a file of swans passed with broad strong flight to the reeded waters of the sequestered pool .
Another hour of silence while the light throbbed and flamed in the east ; then the larks rose harmonious from a neighbouring field , the rabbits scurried with ears alert to their morning meal , the day had begun .
I passed through the coppice and out into the fields beyond .
The dew lay heavy on leaf and blade and gossamer , a cool fresh wind swept clear over dale and down from the sea , and the clover field rippled like a silvery lake in the breeze .
There is something inexpressibly beautiful in the unused day , something beautiful in the fact that it is still untouched , unsoiled ; and town and country share alike in this loveliness .
At half - past three on a June morning even London has not assumed her responsibilities , but smiles and glows lighthearted and smokeless under the caresses of the morning sun .
Five o'clock .
The bell rings out crisp and clear from the monastery where the Bedesmen of St Hugh watch and pray for the souls on this labouring forgetful earth .
Every hour the note of comfort and warning cries across the land , tells the Sanctus , the Angelus , and the Hours of the Passion , and calls to remembrance and prayer .
When the wind is north , the sound carries as far as my road , and companies me through the day ; and if to His dumb children God in His mercy reckons work as prayer , most certainly those who have forged through the ages an unbroken chain of supplication and thanksgiving will be counted among the stalwart labourers of the house of the Lord .
Sun and bell together are my only clock : it is time for my water drawing ; and gathering a pile of mushrooms , children of the night , I hasten home .
The cottage is dear to me in its quaint untidiness and want of rectitude , dear because we are to be its last denizens , last of the long line of toilers who have sweated and sown that others might reap , and have passed away leaving no trace .
I once saw a tall cross in a seaboard churchyard , inscribed , " To the memory of the unknown dead who have perished in these waters . "
There might be one in every village sleeping - place to the unhonoured many who made fruitful the land with sweat and tears .
It is a consolation to think that when we look back on this stretch of life 's road from beyond the first milestone , which , it is instructive to remember , is always a grave , we may hope to see the work of this world with open eyes , and to judge of it with a due sense of proportion .
A bee with laden honey - bag hummed and buzzed in the hedge as I got ready for work , importuning the flowers for that which he could not carry , and finally giving up the attempt in despair fell asleep on a buttercup , the best place for his weary little velvet body .
In five minutes - they may have been five hours to him - he awoke a new bee , sensible and clear - sighted , and flew blithely away to the hive with his sufficiency - an example this weary world would be wise to follow .
My road has been lonely to - day .
A parson came by in the afternoon , a stranger in the neighbourhood , for he asked his way .
He talked awhile , and with kindly rebuke said it was sad to see a man of my education brought so low , which shows how the outside appearance may mislead the prejudiced observer .
" Was it misfortune ? "
" Nay , the best of good luck , " I answered , gaily .
The good man with beautiful readiness sat down on a heap of stones and bade me say on .
" Read me a sermon in stone , " he said , simply ; and I stayed my hand to read .
He listened with courteous intelligence .
" You hold a roadmender has a vocation ? "
he asked .
" As the monk or the artist , for , like both , he is universal .
The world is his home ; he serves all men alike , ay , and for him the beasts have equal honour with the men .
His soul is ' bound up in the bundle of life ' with all other souls , he sees his father , his mother , his brethren in the children of the road .
For him there is nothing unclean , nothing common ; the very stones cry out that they serve . "
Parson nodded his head .
" It is all true , " he said ; " beautifully true .
But need such a view of life necessitate the work of roadmending ?
Surely all men should be roadmenders . "
O wise parson , so to read the lesson of the road !
" It is true , " I answered ; " but some of us find our salvation in the actual work , and earn our bread better in this than in any other way .
No man is dependent on our earning , all men on our work .
We are ' rich beyond the dreams of avarice ' because we have all that we need , and yet we taste the life and poverty of the very poor .
We are , if you will , uncloistered monks , preaching friars who speak not with the tongue , disciples who hear the wise words of a silent master . "
" Robert Louis Stevenson was a roadmender , " said the wise parson .
" Ay , and with more than his pen , " I answered .
" I wonder was he ever so truly great , so entirely the man we know and love , as when he inspired the chiefs to make a highway in the wilderness .
Surely no more fitting monument could exist to his memory than the Road of Gratitude , cut , laid , and kept by the pure - blooded tribe kings of Samoa . "
Parson nodded .
" He knew that the people who make no roads are ruled out from intelligent participation in the world 's brotherhood . "
He filled his pipe , thinking the while , then he held out his pouch to me .
" Try some of this baccy , " he said ; " Sherwood of Magdalen sent it me from some outlandish place . "
I accepted gratefully .
It was such tobacco as falls to the lot of few roadmenders .
He rose to go .
" I wish I could come and break stones , " he said , a little wistfully .
" Nay , " said I , " few men have such weary roadmending as yours , and perhaps you need my road less than most men , and less than most parsons . "
We shook hands , and he went down the road and out of my life .
He little guessed that I knew Sherwood , ay , and knew him too , for had not Sherwood told me of the man he delighted to honour .
Ah , well !
I am no Browning Junior , and Sherwood 's name is not Sherwood .
CHAPTER VI AWHILE ago I took a holiday ; mouched , played truant from my road .
Jem the waggoner hailed me as he passed - he was going to the mill - would I ride with him and come back atop of the full sacks ?
I hid my hammer in the hedge , climbed into the great waggon white and fragrant with the clean sweet meal , and flung myself down on the empty flour bags .
The looped - back tarpaulin framed the long vista of my road with the downs beyond ; and I lay in the cool dark , caressed by the fresh breeze in its thoroughfare , soothed by the strong monotonous tramp of the great grey team and the music of the jangling harness .
Jem walked at the leaders ' heads ; it is his rule when the waggon is empty , a rule no " company " will make him break .
At first I regretted it , but soon discovered I learnt to know him better so , as he plodded along , his thickset figure slightly bent , his hands in his pockets , his whip under one arm , whistling hymn tunes in a low minor , while the great horses answered to his voice without touch of lash or guiding rein .
I lay as in a blissful dream and watched my road unfold .
The sun set the pine - boles aflare where the hedge is sparse , and stretched the long shadows of the besom poplars in slanting bars across the white highway ; the roadside gardens smiled friendly with their trim - cut laurels and rows of stately sunflowers - a seemly proximity this , Daphne and Clytie , sisters in experience , wrapped in the warm caress of the god whose wooing they need no longer fear .
Here and there we passed little groups of women and children off to work in the early cornfields , and Jem paused in his fond repetition of " The Lord my pasture shall prepare " to give them good - day .
It is like Life , this travelling backwards - that which has been , alone visible - like Life , which is after all , retrospective with a steady moving on into the Unknown , Unseen , until Faith is lost in Sight and experience is no longer the touchstone of humanity .
The face of the son of Adam is set on the road his brothers have travelled , marking their landmarks , tracing their journeyings ; but with the eyes of a child of God he looks forward , straining to catch a glimpse of the jewelled walls of his future home , the city " Eternal in the Heavens . "
Presently we left my road for the deep shade of a narrow country way where the great oaks and beeches meet overhead and no hedge - clipper sets his hand to stay nature 's profusion ; and so by pleasant lanes scarce the waggon 's width across , now shady , now sunny , here bordered by thickset coverts , there giving on fruitful fields , we came at length to the mill .
I left Jem to his business with the miller and wandered down the flowery meadow to listen to the merry clack of the stream and the voice of the waters on the weir .
The great wheel was at rest , as I love best to see it in the later afternoon ; the splash and churn of the water belong rather to the morning hours .
It is the chief mistake we make in portioning out our day that we banish rest to the night - time , which is for sleep and recreating , instead of setting apart the later afternoon and quiet twilight hours for the stretching of weary limbs and repose of tired mind after a day 's toil that should begin and end at five .
The little stone bridge over the mill - stream is almost on a level with the clear running water , and I lay there and gazed at the huge wheel which , under multitudinous forms and uses , is one of the world 's wonders , because one of the few things we imitative children have not learnt from nature .
Is it perchance a memory out of that past when Adam walked clear - eyed in Paradise and talked with the Lord in the cool of the day ?
Did he see then the flaming wheels instinct with service , wondrous messengers of the Most High vouchsafed in vision to the later prophets ?
Maybe he did , and going forth from before the avenging sword of his own forging to the bitterness of an accursed earth , took with him this bright memory of perfect , ceaseless service , and so fashioned our labouring wheel - pathetic link with the time of his innocency .
It is one of many unanswered questions , good to ask because it has no answer , only the suggestion of a train of thought : perhaps we are never so receptive as when with folded hands we say simply , " This is a great mystery . "
I watched and wondered until Jem called , and I had to leave the rippling weir and the water 's side , and the wheel with its untold secret .
The miller 's wife gave me tea and a crust of home - made bread , and the miller 's little maid sat on my knee while I told the sad tale of a little pink cloud separated from its parents and teazed and hunted by mischievous little airs .
To - morrow , if I mistake not , her garden will be wet with its tears , and , let us hope , point a moral ; for the tale had its origin in a frenzied chicken driven from the side of an anxious mother , and pursued by a sturdy , relentless figure in a white sun - bonnet .
The little maid trotted off , greatly sobered , to look somewhat prematurely for the cloud 's tears ; and I climbed to my place at the top of the piled - up sacks , and thence watched twilight pass to starlight through my narrow peep , and , so watching , slept until Jem 's voice hailed me from Dreamland , and I went , only half awake , across the dark fields home .
Autumn is here and it is already late .
He has painted the hedges russet and gold , scarlet and black , and a tangle of grey ; now he has damp brown leaves in his hair and frost in his finger - tips .
It is a season of contrasts ; at first all is stir and bustle , the ingathering of man and beast ; barn and rickyard stand filled with golden treasure ; at the farm the sound of threshing ; in wood and copse the squirrels busied ' twixt tree and storehouse , while the ripe nuts fall with thud of thunder rain .
When the harvesting is over , the fruit gathered , the last rick thatched , there comes a pause .
Earth strips off her bright colours and shows a bare and furrowed face ; the dead leaves fall gently and sadly through the calm , sweet air ; grey mists drape the fields and hedges .
The migratory birds have left , save a few late swallows ; and as I sit at work in the soft , still rain , I can hear the blackbird 's melancholy trill and the thin pipe of the redbreast 's winter song - the air is full of the sound of farewell .
Forethought and preparation for the Future which shall be ; farewell , because of the Future which may never be - for us ; " Man , thou hast goods laid up for many years , and it is well ; but , remember , this night thy soul may be required " ; is the unvoiced lesson of autumn .
There is growing up among us a great fear ; it stares at us white , wide - eyed , from the faces of men and women alike - the fear of pain , mental and bodily pain .
For the last twenty years we have waged war with suffering - a noble war when fought in the interest of the many , but fraught with great danger to each individual man .
It is the fear which should not be , rather than the ' hope which is in us , ' that leads men in these days to drape Death in a flowery mantle , to lay stress on the shortness of parting , the speedy reunion , to postpone their good - byes until the last moment , or avoid saying them altogether ; and this fear is a poor , ignoble thing , unworthy of those who are as gods , knowing good and evil .
We are still paying the price of that knowledge ; suffering in both kinds is a substantial part of it , and brings its own healing .
Let us pay like men , our face to the open heaven , neither whimpering like children in the dark , nor lulled to unnecessary oblivion by some lethal drug ; for it is manly , not morbid , to dare to taste the pungent savour of pain , the lingering sadness of farewell which emphasises the aftermath of life ; it should have its place in all our preparation as a part of our inheritance we dare not be without .
There is an old couple in our village who are past work .
The married daughter has made shift to take her mother and the parish half - crown , but there is neither room nor food for the father , and he must go to N - .
If husband and wife went together , they would be separated at the workhouse door .
The parting had to come ; it came yesterday .
I saw them stumbling lamely down the road on their last journey together , walking side by side without touch or speech , seeing and heeding nothing but a blank future .
As they passed me the old man said gruffly , " ' Tis far eno ' ; better be gettin ' back " ; but the woman shook her head , and they breasted the hill together .
At the top they paused , shook hands , and separated ; one went on , the other turned back ; and as the old woman limped blindly by I turned away , for there are sights a man dare not look upon .
She passed ; and I heard a child 's shrill voice say , " I come to look for you , gran " ; and I thanked God that there need be no utter loneliness in the world while it holds a little child .
Now it is my turn , and I must leave the wayside to serve in the sheepfolds during the winter months .
It is scarcely a farewell , for my road is ubiquitous , eternal ; there are green ways in Paradise and golden streets in the beautiful City of God .
Nevertheless , my heart is heavy ; for , viewed by the light of the waning year , roadmending seems a great and wonderful work which I have poorly conceived of and meanly performed : yet I have learnt to understand dimly the truths of three great paradoxes - the blessing of a curse , the voice of silence , the companionship of solitude - and so take my leave of this stretch of road , and of you who have fared along the white highway through the medium of a printed page .
Farewell !
It is a roadmender 's word ; I cry you Godspeed to the next milestone - and beyond .
OUT OF THE SHADOW CHAPTER I I AM no longer a roadmender ; the stretch of white highway which leads to the end of the world will know me no more ; the fields and hedgerows , grass and leaf stiff with the crisp rime of winter 's breath , lie beyond my horizon ; the ewes in the folding , their mysterious eyes quick with the consciousness of coming motherhood , answer another 's voice and hand ; while I lie here , not in the lonely companionship of my expectations , but where the shadow is bright with kindly faces and gentle hands , until one kinder and gentler still carries me down the stairway into the larger room .
But now the veil was held aside and one went by crowned with the majesty of years , wearing the ermine of an unstained rule , the purple of her people 's loyalty .
Nations stood with bated breath to see her pass in the starlit mist of her children 's tears ; a monarch - greatest of her time ; an empress - conquered men called mother ; a woman - Englishmen cried queen ; still the crowned captive of her people 's heart - the prisoner of love .
The night - goers passed under my window in silence , neither song nor shout broke the welcome dark ; next morning the workmen who went by were strangely quiet .
' VICTORIA DEI GRATIA BRITANNIARUM REGINA . '
Did they think of how that legend would disappear , and of all it meant , as they paid their pennies at the coffee - stall ?
The feet rarely know the true value and work of the head ; but all Englishmen have been and will be quick to acknowledge and revere Victoria by the grace of God a wise woman , a great and loving mother .
Years ago , I , standing at a level crossing , saw her pass .
The train slowed down and she caught sight of the gatekeeper 's little girl who had climbed the barrier .
Such a smile as she gave her !
And then I caught a quick startled gesture as she slipped from my vision ; I thought afterwards it was that she feared the child might fall .
Mother first , then Queen ; even so rest came to her - not in one of the royal palaces , but in her own home , surrounded by the immediate circle of her nearest and dearest , while the world kept watch and ward .
I , a shy lover of the fields and woods , longed always , should a painless passing be vouchsafed me , to make my bed on the fragrant pine needles in the aloneness of a great forest ; to lie once again as I had lain many a time , bathed in the bitter sweetness of the sun - blessed pines , lapped in the manifold silence ; my ear attuned to the wind of Heaven with its call from the Cities of Peace .
In sterner mood , when Love 's hand held a scourge , I craved rather the stress of the moorland with its bleaker mind imperative of sacrifice .
To rest again under the lee of Rippon Tor swept by the strong peat - smelling breeze ; to stare untired at the long cloud - shadowed reaches , and watch the mist - wraiths huddle and shrink round the stones of blood ; until my sacrifice too was accomplished , and my soul had fled .
A wild waste moor ; a vast void sky ; and naught between heaven and earth but man , his sin - glazed eyes seeking afar the distant light of his own heart .
With years came counsels more profound , and the knowledge that man was no mere dweller in the woods to follow the footsteps of the piping god , but an integral part of an organised whole , in which Pan too has his fulfilment .
The wise Venetians knew ; and read pantheism into Christianity when they set these words round Ezekiel 's living creatures in the altar vault of St Mark 's : - QUAEQUE SUB OBSCURIS DE CRISTO DICTA FIGURIS HIS APERIRE DATUR ET IN HIS , DEUS IPSE NOTATUR .
" Thou shalt have none other gods but me . "
If man had been able to keep this one commandment perfectly the other nine would never have been written ; instead he has comprehensively disregarded it , and perhaps never more than now in the twentieth century .
Ah , well !
this world , in spite of all its sinning , is still the Garden of Eden where the Lord walked with man , not in the cool of evening , but in the heat and stress of the immediate working day .
There is no angel now with flaming sword to keep the way of the Tree of Life , but tapers alight morning by morning in the Hostel of God to point us to it ; and we , who are as gods knowing good and evil , partake of that fruit " whereof whoso eateth shall never die " ; the greatest gift or the most awful penalty - Eternal Life .
I then , with my craving for tree and sky , held that a great capital with its stir of life and death , of toil and strife and pleasure , was an ill place for a sick man to wait in ; a place to shrink from as a child shrinks from the rude blow of one out of authority .
Yet here , far from moor and forest , hillside and hedgerow , in the family sitting - room of the English - speaking peoples , the London much misunderstood , I find the fulfilment by antithesis of all desire .
For the loneliness of the moorland , there is the warmth and companionship of London 's swift beating heart .
For silence there is sound - the sound and stir of service - for the most part far in excess of its earthly equivalent .
Against the fragrant incense of the pines I set the honest sweat of the man whose lifetime is the measure of his working day .
" He that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen , how shall he love God whom he hath not seen ? "
wrote Blessed John , who himself loved so much that he beheld the Lamb as it had been slain from the beginning when Adam fell , and the City of God with light most precious .
The burden of corporate sin , the sword of corporate sorrow , the joy of corporate righteousness ; thus we become citizens in the Kingdom of God , and companions of all his creatures .
" It is not good that the man should be alone , " said the Lord God .
I live now as it were in two worlds , the world of sight , and the world of sound ; and they scarcely ever touch each other .
I hear the grind of heavy traffic , the struggle of horses on the frost - breathed ground , the decorous jolt of omnibuses , the jangle of cab bells , the sharp warning of bicycles at the corner , the swift rattle of costers ' carts as they go south at night with their shouting , goading crew .
All these things I hear , and more ; but I see no road , only the silent river of my heart with its tale of wonder and years , and the white beat of seagulls ' wings in strong inquiring flight .
Sometimes there is naught to see on the waterway but a solitary black hull , a very Stygian ferry - boat , manned by a solitary figure , and moving slowly up under the impulse of the far - reaching sweeps .
Then the great barges pass with their coffined treasure , drawn by a small self - righteous steam - tug .
Later , lightened of their load , and waiting on wind and tide , I see them swooping by like birds set free ; tawny sails that mind me of red - roofed Whitby with its northern fleet ; black sails as of some heedless Theseus ; white sails that sweep out of the morning mist " like restless gossameres . "
They make the bridge , which is just within my vision , and then away past Westminster and Blackfriars where St Paul 's great dome lifts the cross high over a self - seeking city ; past Southwark where England 's poet illuminates in the scroll of divine wisdom the sign of the Tabard ; past the Tower with its haunting ghosts of history ; past Greenwich , fairy city , caught in the meshes of riverside mist ; and then the salt and speer of the sea , the companying with great ships , the fresh burden .
At night I see them again , silent , mysterious ; searching the darkness with unwinking yellow stare , led by a great green light .
They creep up under the bridge which spans the river with its watching eyes , and vanish , crying back a warning note as they make the upper reach , or strident hail , as a chain of kindred phantoms passes , ploughing a contrary tide .
Throughout the long watches of the night I follow them ; and in the early morning they slide by , their eyes pale in the twilight ; while the stars flicker and fade , and the gas lamps die down into a dull yellow blotch against the glory and glow of a new day .
CHAPTER II FEBRUARY is here , February fill - dyke ; the month of purification , of cleansing rains and pulsing bounding streams , and white mist clinging insistent to field and hedgerow so that when her veil is withdrawn greenness may make us glad .
The river has been uniformly grey of late , with no wind to ruffle its surface or to speed the barges dropping slowly and sullenly down with the tide through a blurring haze .
I watched one yesterday , its useless sails half - furled and no sign of life save the man at the helm .
It drifted stealthily past , and a little behind , flying low , came a solitary seagull , grey as the river 's haze - a following bird .
Once again I lay on my back in the bottom of the tarry old fishing smack , blue sky above and no sound but the knock , knock of the waves , and the thud and curl of falling foam as the old boat 's blunt nose breasted the coming sea .
Then Daddy Whiddon spoke .
" A follerin ' brrd , " he said .
I got up , and looked across the blue field we were ploughing into white furrows .
Far away a tiny sail scarred the great solitude , and astern came a gull flying slowly close to the water 's breast .
Daddy Whiddon waved his pipe towards it .
" A follerin ' brrd , " he said , again ; and again I waited ; questions were not grateful to him .
" There be a carpse there , sure enough , a carpse driftin ' and shiftin ' on the floor of the sea .
There be those as ca n't rest , poor sawls , and her'll be mun , her'll be mun , and the sperrit of her is with the brrd . "
The clumsy boom swung across as we changed our course , and the water ran from us in smooth reaches on either side : the bird flew steadily on .
" What will the spirit do ? "
I said .
The old man looked at me gravely .
" Her'll rest in the Lard 's time , in the Lard 's gude time - but now her'll just be follerin ' on with the brrd . "
The gull was flying close to us now , and a cold wind swept the sunny sea .
I shivered : Daddy looked at me curiously .
" There be reason enough to be cawld if us did but knaw it , but I he mos ' used to 'em , poor sawls . "
He shaded his keen old blue eyes , and looked away across the water .
His face kindled .
" There be a skule comin ' , and by my sawl ' tis mackerel they be drivin ' . "
I watched eagerly , and saw the dark line rise and fall in the trough of the sea , and , away behind , the stir and rush of tumbling porpoises as they chased their prey .
Again we changed our tack , and each taking an oar , pulled lustily for the beach .
" Please God her'll break inshore , " said Daddy Whiddon ; and he shouted the news to the idle waiting men who hailed us .
In a moment all was stir , for the fishing had been slack .
Two boats put out with the lithe brown seine .
The dark line had turned , but the school was still behind , churning the water in clumsy haste ; they were coming in .
Then the brit broke in silvery leaping waves on the shelving beach .
The threefold hunt was over ; the porpoises turned out to sea in search of fresh quarry ; and the seine , dragged by ready hands , came slowly , stubbornly in with its quivering treasure of fish .
They had sought a haven and found none ; the brit lay dying in flickering iridescent heaps as the bare - legged babies of the village gathered them up ; and far away over the water I saw a single grey speck ; it was the following bird .
The curtain of river haze falls back ; barge and bird are alike gone , and the lamplighter has lit the first gas - lamp on the far side of the bridge .
Every night I watch him come , his progress marked by the great yellow eyes that wake the dark .
Sometimes he walks quickly ; sometimes he loiters on the bridge to chat , or stare at the dark water ; but he always comes , leaving his watchful deterrent train behind him to police the night .
Once Demeter in the black anguish of her desolation searched for lost Persephone by the light of Hecate 's torch ; and searching all in vain , spurned beneath her empty feet an earth barren of her smile ; froze with set brows the merry brooks and streams ; and smote forest , and plain , and fruitful field , with the breath of her last despair , until even Iambe 's laughing jest was still .
And then when the desolation was complete , across the wasted valley where the starveling cattle scarcely longed to browse , came the dreadful chariot - and Persephone .
The day of the prisoner of Hades had dawned ; and as the sun flamed slowly up to light her thwarted eyes the world sprang into blossom at her feet .
We can never be too Pagan when we are truly Christian , and the old myths are eternal truths held fast in the Church 's net .
Prometheus fetched fire from Heaven , to be slain forever in the fetching ; and lo , a Greater than Prometheus came to fire the cresset of the Cross .
Demeter waits now patiently enough .
Persephone waits , too , in the faith of the sun she can not see : and every lamp lit carries on the crusade which has for its goal a sunless , moonless , city whose light is the Light of the world .
" Lume  lass , che visibile face lo creatore a quella creatura , che solo in lui vedere ha la sua pace . "
Immediately outside my window is a lime tree - a little black skeleton of abundant branches - in which sparrows congregate to chirp and bicker .
Farther away I have a glimpse of graceful planes , children of moonlight and mist ; their dainty robes , still more or less unsullied , gleam ghostly in the gaslight athwart the dark .
They make a brave show even in winter with their feathery branches and swinging tassels , whereas my little tree stands stark and uncompromising , with its horde of sooty sparrows cockney to the last tail feather , and a pathetic inability to look anything but black .
Rain comes with strong caressing fingers , and the branches seem no whit the cleaner for her care ; but then their glistening blackness mirrors back the succeeding sunlight , as a muddy pavement will sometimes lap our feet in a sea of gold .
The little wet sparrows are for the moment equally transformed , for the sun turns their dun - coloured coats to a ruddy bronze , and cries Chrysostom as it kisses each shiny beak .
They are dumb Chrysostoms ; but they preach a golden gospel , for the sparrows are to London what the rainbow was to eight saved souls out of a waste of waters - a perpetual sign of the remembering mercies of God .
Last night there was a sudden clatter of hoofs , a shout , and then silence .
A runaway cab - horse , a dark night , a wide crossing , and a heavy burden : so death came to a poor woman .
People from the house went out to help ; and I heard of her , the centre of an unknowing curious crowd , as she lay bonnetless in the mud of the road , her head on the kerb .
A rude but painless death : the misery lay in her life ; for this woman - worn , white - haired , and wrinkled - had but fifty years to set against such a condition .
The policeman reported her respectable , hard - working , living apart from her husband with a sister ; but although they shared rooms , they " did not speak , " and the sister refused all responsibility ; so the parish buried the dead woman , and thus ended an uneventful tragedy .
Was it her own fault ?
If so , the greater pathos .
The lonely souls that hold out timid hands to an unheeding world have their meed of interior comfort even here , while the sons of consolation wait on the thresh - hold for their footfall : but God help the soul that bars its own door !
It is kicking against the pricks of Divine ordinance , the ordinance of a triune God ; whether it be the dweller in crowded street or tenement who is proud to say , " I keep myself to myself , " or Seneca writing in pitiful complacency , " Whenever I have gone among men , I have returned home less of a man . "
Whatever the next world holds in store , we are bidden in this to seek and serve God in our fellow - men , and in the creatures of His making whom He calls by name .
It was once my privilege to know an old organ - grinder named Gawdine .
He was a hard swearer , a hard drinker , a hard liver , and he fortified himself body and soul against the world : he even drank alone , which is an evil sign .
One day to Gawdine sober came a little dirty child , who clung to his empty trouser leg - he had lost a limb years before - with a persistent unintelligible request .
He shook the little chap off with a blow and a curse ; and the child was trotting dismally away , when it suddenly turned , ran back , and held up a dirty face for a kiss .
Two days later Gawdine fell under a passing dray which inflicted terrible internal injuries on him .
They patched him up in hospital , and he went back to his organ - grinding , taking with him two friends - a pain which fell suddenly upon him to rack and rend with an anguish of crucifixion , and the memory of a child 's upturned face .
Outwardly he was the same save that he changed the tunes of his organ , out of long - hoarded savings , for the jigs and reels which children hold dear , and stood patiently playing them in child - crowded alleys , where pennies are not as plentiful as elsewhere .
He continued to drink ; it did not come within his new code to stop , since he could " carry his liquor well ; " but he rarely , if ever , swore .
He told me this tale through the throes of his anguish as he lay crouched on a mattress on the floor ; and as the grip of the pain took him he tore and bit at his hands until they were maimed and bleeding , to keep the ready curses off his lips .
He told the story , but he gave no reason , offered no explanation : he has been dead now many a year , and thus would I write his epitaph : - He saw the face of a little child and looked on God .
CHAPTER III " TWO began , in a low voice , ' Why , the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a red rose - tree , and we put a white one in by mistake . ' "
As I look round this room I feel sure Two , and Five , and Seven , have all been at work on it , and made no mistakes , for round the walls runs a frieze of squat standard rose - trees , red as red can be , and just like those that Alice saw in the Queen 's garden .
In between them are Chaucer 's name - children , prim little daisies , peering wideawake from green grass .
This same grass has a history which I have heard .
In the original stencil for the frieze it was purely conventional like the rest , and met in spikey curves round each tree ; the painter , however , who was doing the work , was a lover of the fields ; and feeling that such grass was a travesty , he added on his own account dainty little tussocks , and softened the hard line into a tufted carpet , the grass growing irregularly , bent at will by the wind .
The result from the standpoint of conventional art is indeed disastrous ; but my sympathy and gratitude are with the painter .
I see , as he saw , the far - reaching robe of living ineffable green , of whose brilliance the eye never has too much , and in whose weft no two threads are alike ; and shrink as he did from the conventionalising of that windswept glory .
The sea has its crested waves of recognisable form ; the river its eddy and swirl and separate vortices ; but the grass !
The wind bloweth where it listeth and the grass bows as the wind blows - " thou canst not tell whither it goeth . "
It takes no pattern , it obeys no recognised law ; it is like a beautiful creature of a thousand wayward moods , and its voice is like nothing else in the wide world .
It bids you rest and bury your tired face in the green coolness , and breathe of its breath and of the breath of the good earth from which man was taken and to which he will one day return .
Then , if you lend your ear and are silent minded , you may hear wondrous things of the deep places of the earth ; of life in mineral and stone as well as in pulsing sap ; of a green world as the stars saw it before man trod it under foot - of the emerald which has its place with the rest in the City of God .
" What if earth Be but the shadow of heaven , and things therein , Each to each other like , more than on earth to thought ? "
It is a natural part of civilisation 's lust of re - arrangement that we should be so ready to conventionalise the beauty of this world into decorative patterns for our pilgrim tents .
It is a phase , and will melt into other phases ; but it tends to the increase of artificiality , and exists not only in art but in everything .
It is no new thing for jaded sentiment to crave the spur of the unnatural , to prefer the clever imitation , to live in a Devachan where the surroundings appear that which we would have them to be ; but it is an interesting record of the pulse of the present day that ' An Englishwoman 's Love Letters ' should have taken society by storm in the way it certainly has .
It is a delightful book to leave about , with its vellum binding , dainty ribbons , and the hallmark of a great publisher 's name .
But when we seek within we find love with its thousand voices and wayward moods , its shy graces and seemly reticences , love which has its throne and robe of state as well as the garment of the beggar maid , love which is before time was , which knew the world when the stars took up their courses , presented to us in gushing outpourings , the appropriate language of a woman 's heart to the boor she delights to honour .
" It is woman who is the glory of man , " says the author of ' The House of Wisdom and Love , ' " Regina mundi , greater , because so far the less ; and man is her head , but only as he serves his queen . "
Set this sober aphorism against the school girl love - making which kisses a man 's feet and gaily refuses him the barren honour of having loved her first .
There is scant need for the apologia which precedes the letters ; a few pages dispels the fear that we are prying into another 's soul .
As for the authorship , there is a woman 's influence , an artist 's poorly concealed bias in the foreign letters ; and for the rest a man 's blunders - so much easier to see in another than to avoid oneself - writ large from cover to cover .
King Cophetua , who sends " profoundly grateful remembrances , " has most surely written the letters he would wish to receive .
" Mrs Meynell ! "
cries one reviewer , triumphantly .
Nay , the saints be good to us , what has Mrs Meynell in common with the " Englishwoman 's " language , style , or most unconvincing passion ?
Men can write as from a woman 's heart when they are minded to do so in desperate earnestness - there is Clarissa Harlowe and Stevenson 's Kirstie , and many more to prove it ; but when a man writes as the author of the " Love Letters " writes , I feel , as did the painter of the frieze , that pattern - making has gone too far and included that which , like the grass , should be spared such a convention .
" I quite agree with you , " said the Duchess , " and the moral of that is - ' Be what you would seem to be ' - or , if you 'd like to put it more simply - ' never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise . ' "
And so by way of the Queen 's garden I come back to my room again .
My heart 's affections are still centred on my old attic , with boarded floor and white - washed walls , where the sun blazoned a frieze of red and gold until he travelled too far towards the north , the moon streamed in to paint the trees in inky wavering shadows , and the stars flashed their glory to me across the years .
But now sun and moon greet me only indirectly , and under the red roses hang pictures , some of them the dear companions of my days .
Opposite me is the Arundel print of the Presentation , painted by the gentle " Brother of the Angels . "
Priest Simeon , a stately figure in green and gold , great with prophecy , gazes adoringly at the Bambino he holds with fatherly care .
Our Lady , in robe of red and veil of shadowed purple , is instinct with light despite the sombre colouring , as she stretches out hungering , awe - struck hands for her soul 's delight .
St Joseph , dignified guardian and servitor , stands behind , holding the Sacrifice of the Poor to redeem the First - begotten .
St Peter Martyr and the Dominican nun , gazing in rapt contemplation at the scene , are not one whit surprised to find themselves in the presence of eternal mysteries .
In the Entombment , which hangs on the opposite wall , St Dominic comes round the corner full of grievous amaze and tenderest sympathy , but with no sense of shock or intrusion , for was he not " famigliar di Cristo " ?
And so he takes it all in ; the stone bed empty and waiting ; the Beloved cradled for the last time on His mother 's knees to be washed , lapped round , and laid to rest as if He were again the Babe of Bethlehem .
He sees the Magdalen anointing the Sacred Feet ; Blessed John caring for the living and the Dead ; and he , Dominic - hound of the Lord - having his real , living share in the anguish and hope , the bedding of the dearest Dead , who did but leave this earth that He might manifest Himself more completely .
Underneath , with a leap across the centuries , is Rossetti 's picture ; Dante this time the onlooker , Beatrice , in her pale beauty , the death - kissed one .
The same idea under different representations ; the one conceived in childlike simplicity , the other recalling , even in the photograph , its wealth of colour and imagining ; the one a world - wide ideal , the other an individual expression of it .
Beatrice was to Dante the inclusion of belief .
She was more to him than he himself knew , far more to him after her death than before .
And , therefore , the analogy between the pictures has at core a common reality .
" It is expedient for you that I go away , " is constantly being said to us as we cling earthlike to the outward expression , rather than to the inward manifestation - and blessed are those who hear and understand , for it is spoken only to such as have been with Him from the beginning .
The eternal mysteries come into time for us individually under widely differing forms .
The tiny child mothers its doll , croons to it , spends herself upon it , why she can not tell you ; and we who are here in our extreme youth , never to be men and women grown in this world , nurse our ideal , exchange it , refashion it , call it by many names ; and at last in here or hereafter we find in its naked truth the Child in the manger , even as the Wise Men found Him when they came from the East to seek a great King .
There is but one necessary condition of this finding ; we must follow the particular manifestation of light given us , never resting until it rests - over the place of the Child .
And there is but one insurmountable hindrance , the extinction of or drawing back from the light truly apprehended by us .
We forget this , and judge other men by the light of our own soul .
I think the old bishop must have understood it .
He is my friend of friends as he lies opposite my window in his alabaster sleep , clad in pontifical robes , with unshod feet , a little island of white peace in a many - coloured marble sea .
The faithful sculptor has given every line and wrinkle , the heavy eyelids and sunken face of tired old age , but withal the smile of a contented child .
I do not even know my bishop 's name , only that the work is of the thirteenth century ; but he is good to company with through the day , for he has known darkness and light and the minds of many men ; most surely , too , he has known that God fulfils Himself in strange ways , so with the shadow of his feet upon the polished floor he rests in peace .
CHAPTER IV ON Sunday my little tree was limned in white and the sparrows were craving shelter at my window from the blizzard .
Now the mild thin air brings a breath of spring in its wake and the daffodils in the garden wait the kisses of the sun .
Hand - in - hand with memory I slip away down the years , and remember a day when I awoke at earliest dawn , for across my sleep I had heard the lusty golden - throated trumpeters heralding the spring .
The air was sharp - set ; a delicate rime frosted roof and road ; the sea lay hazy and still like a great pearl .
Then as the sky stirred with flush upon flush of warm rosy light , it passed from misty pearl to opal with heart of flame , from opal to gleaming sapphire .
The earth called , the fields called , the river called - that pied piper to whose music a man can not stop his ears .
It was with me as with the Canterbury pilgrims : - " So priketh hem nature in hir corages ; Than longen folk to gon on pilgrimages . "
Half an hour later I was away by the early train that carries the branch mails and a few workmen , and was delivered at the little wayside station with the letters .
The kind air went singing past as I swung along the reverberating road between the high tree - crowned banks which we call hedges in merry Devon , with all the world to myself and the Brethren .
A great blackbird flew out with a loud " chook , chook , " and the red of the haw on his yellow bill .
A robin trilled from a low rose - bush ; two wrens searched diligently on a fallen tree for breakfast , quite unconcerned when I rested a moment beside them ; and a shrewmouse slipped across the road followed directly by its mate .
March violets bloomed under the sheltered hedge with here and there a pale primrose ; a frosted bramble spray still held its autumn tints clinging to the semblance of the past ; and great branches of snowy blackthorn broke the barren hedgeway as if spring made a mock of winter 's snows .
Light of heart and foot with the new wine of the year I sped on again , stray daffodils lighting the wayside , until I heard the voice of the stream and reached the field gate which leads to the lower meadows .
There before me lay spring 's pageant ; green pennons waving , dainty maids curtseying , and a host of joyous yellow trumpeters proclaiming ' Victory ' to an awakened earth .
They range in serried ranks right down to the river , so that a man must walk warily to reach the water 's edge where they stand gazing down at themselves in fairest semblance like their most tragic progenitor , and , rising from the bright grass in their thousands , stretch away until they melt in a golden cloud at the far end of the misty mead .
Through the field gate and across the road I see them , starring the steep earth bank that leads to the upper copse , gleaming like pale flames against the dark tree - boles .
There they have but frail tenure ; here , in the meadows , they reign supreme .
At the upper end of the field the river provides yet closer sanctuary for these children of the spring .
Held in its embracing arms lies an island long and narrow , some thirty feet by twelve , a veritable untrod Eldorado , glorious in gold from end to end , a fringe of reeds by the water 's edge , and save for that - daffodils .
A great oak stands at the meadow 's neck , an oak with gnarled and wandering roots where a man may rest , for it is bare of daffodils save for a group of three , and a solitary one apart growing close to the old tree 's side .
I sat down by my lonely little sister , blue sky overhead , green grass at my feet decked , like the pastures of the Blessd , in glorious sheen ; a sea of triumphant , golden heads tossing blithely back as the wind swept down to play with them at his pleasure .
It was all mine to have and to hold without severing a single slender stem or harbouring a thought of covetousness ; mine , as the whole earth was mine , to appropriate to myself without the burden and bane of worldly possession .
" Thou sayest that I am - a King , " said the Lord before Pilate , and " My kingdom is not of this world . "
We who are made kings after His likeness possess all things , not after this world 's fashion but in proportion to our poverty ; and when we cease to toil and spin , are arrayed as the lilies , in a glory transcending Solomon 's .
Bride Poverty - she who climbed the Cross with Christ - stretched out eager hands to free us from our chains , but we flee from her , and lay up treasure against her importunity , while Amytas on his seaweed bed weeps tears of pure pity for crave - mouth Csar of great possessions .
Presently another of spring 's lovers cried across the water " Cuckoo , cuckoo , " and the voice of the stream sang joyously in unison .
It is free from burden , this merry little river , and neither weir nor mill bars its quick way to the sea as it completes the eternal circle , lavishing gifts of coolness and refreshment on the children of the meadows .
It has its birth on the great lone moor , cradled in a wonderful peat - smelling bog , with a many - hued coverlet of soft mosses - pale gold , orange , emerald , tawny , olive and white , with the red stain of sun - dew and tufted cotton - grass .
Under the old grey rocks which watch it rise , yellow - eyed tormantil stars the turf , and bids " Godspeed " to the little child of earth and sky .
Thus the journey begins ; and with ever - increasing strength the stream carves a way through the dear brown peat , wears a fresh wrinkle on the patient stones , and patters merrily under a clapper bridge which spanned its breadth when the mistletoe reigned and Bottor , the grim rock idol , exacted the toll of human life that made him great .
On and on goes the stream , for it may not stay ; leaving of its freshness with the great osmunda that stretches eager roots towards the running water ; flowing awhile with a brother stream , to part again east and west as each takes up his separate burden of service - my friend to cherish the lower meadows in their flowery joyance - and so by the great sea - gate back to sky and earth again .
The river of God is full of water .
The streets of the City are pure gold .
Verily , here also having nothing we possess all things .
The air was keen and still as I walked back in the early evening , and a daffodil light was in the sky as if Heaven mirrored back earth 's radiance .
Near the station some children flitted past , like little white miller moths homing through the dusk .
As I climbed the hill the moon rode high in a golden field - it was daffodils to the last .
CHAPTER V THE seagulls from the upper reaches pass down the river in sober steady flight seeking the open sea .
I shall miss the swoop and circle of silver wings in the sunlight and the plaintive call which sounds so strangely away from rock and shore , but it is good to know that they have gone from mudbank and murky town back to the free airs of their inheritance , to the shadow of sun - swept cliffs and the curling crest of the wind - beaten waves , to brood again over the great ocean of a world 's tears .
My little tree is gemmed with buds , shy , immature , but full of promise .
The sparrows busied with nest - building in the neighbouring pipes and gutters use it for a vantage ground , and crowd there in numbers , each little beak sealed with long golden straw or downy feather .
The river is heavy with hay barges , the last fruits of winter 's storehouse ; the lengthening days slowly and steadily oust the dark ; the air is loud with a growing clamour of life : spring is not only proclaimed , but on this Feast she is crowned , and despite the warring wind the days bring their meed of sunshine .
We stand for a moment at the meeting of the ways , the handclasp of Winter and Spring , of Sleep and Wakening , of Life and Death ; and there is between them not even the thin line which Rabbi Jochanan on his death - bed beheld as all that divided hell from heaven . "
Sphra cujus centrum ubique , circumferentia nullibus , " was said of Mercury , that messenger of the gods who marshalled reluctant spirits to the Underworld ; and for Mercury we may write Life with Death as its great sacrament of brotherhood and release , to be dreaded only as we dread to partake unworthily of great benefits .
Like all sacraments it has its rightful time and due solemnities ; the horror and sin of suicide lie in the presumption of free will , the forestalling of a gift , - the sin of Eve in Paradise , who took that which might only be given at the hand of the Lord .
It has too its physical pains , but they are those of a woman in travail , and we remember them no more for joy that a child - man is born into the world naked and not ashamed : beholding ourselves as we are we shall see also the leaves of the Tree of Life set for the healing of the nations .
We are slowly , very slowly , abandoning our belief in sudden and violent transitions for a surer and fuller acceptance of the doctrine of evolution ; but most of us still draw a sharp line of demarcation between this world and the next , and expect a radical change in ourselves and our surroundings , a break in the chain of continuity entirely contrary to the teaching of nature and experience .
In the same way we cling to the specious untruth that we can begin over and over again in this world , forgetting that while our sorrow and repentance bring sacramental gifts of grace and strength , God Himself can not , by His own limitation , rewrite the Past .
We are in our sorrow that which we have made ourselves in our sin ; our temptations are there as well as the way of escape .
We are in the image of God .
We create our world , our undying selves , our heaven , or our hell . "
Qui creavit te sine te non salvabit te sine te . "
It is stupendous , magnificent , and most appalling .
A man does not change as he crosses the threshold of the larger room .
His personality remains the same , although the expression of it may be altered .
Here we have material bodies in a material world - there , perhaps , ether bodies in an ether world .
There is no indecency in reasonable speculation and curiosity about the life to come .
One end of the thread is between our fingers , but we are haunted for the most part by the snap of Atropos ' shears .
Socrates faced death with the magnificent calm bred of dignified familiarity .
He had built for himself a desired heaven of colour , light , and precious stones - the philosophic formula of those who set the spiritual above the material , and worship truth in the beauty of holiness .
He is not troubled by doubts or regrets , for the path of the just lies plain before his face .
He forbids mourning and lamentations as out of place , obeys minutely and cheerily the directions of his executioner , and passes with unaffected dignity to the apprehension of that larger truth for which he had constantly prepared himself .
His friends may bury him provided they will remember they are not burying Socrates ; and that all things may be done decently and in order , a cock must go to sculapius .
Long before , in the days of the Captivity , there lived in godless , blood - shedding Nineveh an exiled Jew whose father had fallen from the faith .
He was a simple man , child - like and direct ; living the careful , kindly life of an orthodox Jew , suffering many persecutions for conscience ' sake , and in constant danger of death .
He narrates the story of his life and of the blindness which fell on him , with gentle placidity , and checks the exuberance of his more emotional wife with the assurance of untroubled faith .
Finally , when his pious expectations are fulfilled , his sight restored , and his son prosperously established beside him , he breaks into a prayer of rejoicing which reveals the secret of his confident content .
He made use of two great faculties : the sense of proportion , which enabled him to apprise life and its accidents justly , and the gift of in - seeing , which led Socrates after him , and Blessed John in lonely exile on Patmos , to look through the things temporal to the hidden meanings of eternity .
" Let my soul bless God the great King , " he cries ; and looks away past the present distress ; past the Restoration which was to end in fresh scattering and confusion ; past the dream of gold , and porphyry , and marble defaced by the eagles and emblems of the conqueror ; until his eyes are held by the Jerusalem of God , " built up with sapphires , and emeralds , and precious stones , " with battlements of pure gold , and the cry of ' Alleluia ' in her streets .
Many years later , when he was very aged , he called his son to him and gave him as heritage his own simple rule of life , adding but one request : " Keep thou the law and the commandments , and shew thyself merciful and just , that it may go well with thee ... .
Consider what alms doeth , and how righteousness doth deliver ... . And bury me decently , and thy mother with me . "
Having so said , he went his way quietly and contentedly to the Jerusalem of his heart .
It is the simple note of familiarity that is wanting in us ; that by which we link world with world .
Once , years ago , I sat by the bedside of a dying man in a wretched garret in the East End .
He was entirely ignorant , entirely quiescent , and entirely uninterested .
The minister of a neighbouring chapel came to see him and spoke to him at some length of the need for repentance and the joys of heaven .
After he had gone my friend lay staring restlessly at the mass of decrepit broken chimney pots which made his horizon .
At last he spoke , and there was a new note in his voice : - " Ee said as ' ow there were golding streets in them parts .
I ai n't no ways particler wot they 're made of , but it 'll feel natral like if there 's chimleys too . "
The sun stretched a sudden finger and painted the chimney pots red and gold against the smoke - dimmed sky , and with his face alight with surprised relief my friend died .
We are one with the earth , one in sin , one in redemption .
It is the fringe of the garment of God .
" If I may but touch the hem , " said a certain woman .
On the great Death - day which shadows the early spring with a shadow of which it may be said Umbra Dei est Lux , the earth brought gifts of grief , the fruit of the curse , barren thorns , hollow reed , and the wood of the cross ; the sea made offering of Tyrian purple ; the sky veiled her face in great darkness , while the nation of priests crucified for the last time their Paschal lamb .
" I will hear , saith the Lord ; I will hear the heavens , and they shall hear the earth , and the earth shall hear the corn and wine and oil , and they shall hear Jezreel , and I will sow her unto me in the earth ; and I will have mercy upon her that had not obtained mercy , and I will say unto them which were not my people , ' Thou art my people , ' and they shall say ' Thou art my God . ' "
The second Adam stood in the garden with quickening feet , and all the earth pulsed and sang for joy of the new hope and the new life quickening within her , to be hers through the pains of travail , the pangs of dissolution .
The Tree of Life bears Bread and Wine - food of the wayfaring man .
The day of divisions is past , the day of unity has dawned .
One has risen from the dead , and in the Valley of Achor stands wide the Door of Hope - the Sacrament of Death .
Scio Domine , et vere scio ... quia non sum dignus accedere ad tantum mysterium propter nimia peccata mea et infinitas negligentias meas .
Sed scio ... quia tu potes me facere dignum .
CHAPTER VI " ANYTUS and Meletus can kill me , but they can not hurt me , " said Socrates ; and Governor Sancho , with all the itch of newly - acquired authority , could not make the young weaver of steel - heads for lances sleep in prison .
In the Vision of Er the souls passed straight forward under the throne of necessity , and out into the plains of forgetfulness , where they must severally drink of the river of unmindfulness whose waters can not be held in any vessel .
The throne , the plain , and the river are still here , but in the distance rise the great lone heavenward hills , and the wise among us no longer ask of the gods Lethe , but rather remembrance .
Necessity can set me helpless on my back , but she can not keep me there ; nor can four walls limit my vision .
I pass out from under her throne into the garden of God a free man , to my ultimate beatitude or my exceeding shame .
All day long this world lies open to me ; ay , and other worlds also , if I will but have it so ; and when night comes I pass into the kingdom and power of the dark .
I lie through the long hours and watch my bridge , which is set with lights across the gloom ; watch the traffic which is for me but so many passing lamps telling their tale by varying height and brightness .
I hear under my window the sprint of over - tired horses , the rattle of uncertain wheels as the street - sellers hasten south ; the jangle of cab bells as the theatre - goers take their homeward way ; the gruff altercation of weary men , the unmelodious song and clamorous laugh of women whose merriment is wearier still .
Then comes a time of stillness when the light in the sky waxes and wanes , when the cloud - drifts obscure the stars , and I gaze out into blackness set with watching eyes .
No sound comes from without but the voice of the night - wind and the cry of the hour .
The clock on the mantelpiece ticks imperatively , for a check has fallen on the familiarity which breeds a disregard of common things , and a reason has to be sought for each sound which claims a hearing .
The pause is wonderful while it lasts , but it is not for long .
The working world awakes , the poorer brethren take up the burden of service ; the dawn lights the sky ; remembrance cries an end to forgetting .
Sometimes in the country on a night in early summer you may shut the cottage door to step out into an immense darkness which palls heaven and earth .
Going forward into the embrace of the great gloom , you are as a babe swaddled by the hands of night into helpless quiescence .
Your feet tread an unseen path , your hands grasp at a void , or shrink from the contact they can not realise ; your eyes are holden ; your voice would die in your throat did you seek to rend the veil of that impenetrable silence .
Shut in by the intangible dark , we are brought up against those worlds within worlds blotted out by our concrete daily life .
The working of the great microcosm at which we peer dimly through the little window of science ; the wonderful , breathing earth ; the pulsing , throbbing sap ; the growing fragrance shut in the calyx of to - morrow 's flower ; the heart - beat of a sleeping world that we dream that we know ; and around , above , and interpenetrating all , the world of dreams , of angels and of spirits .
It was this world which Jacob saw on the first night of his exile , and again when he wrestled in Peniel until the break of day .
It was this world which Elisha saw with open eyes ; which Job knew when darkness fell on him ; which Ezekiel gazed into from his place among the captives ; which Daniel beheld as he stood alone by the great river , the river Hiddekel .
For the moment we have left behind the realm of question and explanation , of power over matter and the exercise of bodily faculties ; and passed into darkness alight with visions we can not see , into silence alive with voices we can not hear .
Like helpless men we set our all on the one thing left us , and lift up our hearts , knowing that we are but a mere speck among a myriad worlds , yet greater than the sum of them ; having our roots in the dark places of the earth , but our branches in the sweet airs of heaven .
It is the material counterpart of the ' Night of the Soul . '
We have left our house and set forth in the darkness which paralyses those faculties that make us men in the world of men .
But surely the great mystics , with all their insight and heavenly love , fell short when they sought freedom in complete separateness from creation instead of in perfect unity with it .
The Greeks knew better when they flung Ariadne 's crown among the stars , and wrote Demeter 's grief on a barren earth , and Persephone 's joy in the fruitful field .
For the earth is gathered up in man ; he is the whole which is greater than the sum of its parts .
Standing in the image of God , and clothed in the garment of God , he lifts up priestly hands and presents the sacrifice of redeemed earth before the throne of the All - Father .
" Dust and ashes and a house of devils , " he cries ; and there comes back for answer , " Rex concupiscet decorem tuam . "
The Angel of Death has broad wings of silence and mystery with which he shadows the valley where we need fear no evil , and where the voice which speaks to us is as the " voice of doves , tabering upon their breasts . "
It is a place of healing and preparation , of peace and refreshing after the sharply - defined outlines of a garish day .
Walking there we learn to use those natural faculties of the soul which are hampered by the familiarity of bodily progress , to apprehend the truths which we have intellectually accepted .
It is the place of secrets where the humility which embraces all attainable knowledge cries " I know not " ; and while we proclaim from the house - tops that which we have learnt , the manner of our learning lies hid for each one of us in the sanctuary of our souls .
The Egyptians , in their ancient wisdom , act in the desert a great androsphinx , image of mystery and silence , staring from under level brows across the arid sands of the sea - way .
The Greeks borrowed and debased the image , turning the inscrutable into a semi - woman who asked a foolish riddle , and hurled herself down in petulant pride when dipus answered aright .
So we , marring the office of silence , question its mystery ; thwart ourselves with riddles of our own suggesting ; and turn away , leaving our offering but half consumed on the altar of the unknown god .
It was not the theft of fire that brought the vengeance of heaven upon Prometheus , but the mocking sacrifice .
Orpheus lost Eurydice because he must see her face before the appointed time .
Persephone ate of the pomegranate and hungered in gloom for the day of light which should have been endless .
The universe is full of miracle and mystery ; the darkness and silence are set for a sign we dare not despise .
The pall of night lifts , leaving us engulphed in the light of immensity under a tossing heaven of stars .
The dawn breaks , but it does not surprise us , for we have watched from the valley and seen the pale twilight .
Through the wondrous Sabbath of faithful souls , the long day of rosemary and rue , the light brightens in the East ; and we pass on towards it with quiet feet and opening eyes , bearing with us all of the redeemed earth that we have made our own , until we are fulfilled in the sunrise of the great Easter Day , and the peoples come from north and south and east and west to the City which lieth foursquare - the Beatific Vision of God .
Vere Ierusalem est illa civitas Cuius pax iugis et summa iucunditas ; Ubi non prvenit rem desiderium , Nec desiderio minus est prmium .
AT THE WHITE GATE CHAPTER I A GREAT joy has come to me ; one of those unexpected gifts which life loves to bestow after we have learnt to loose our grip of her .
I am back in my own place very near my road - the white gate lies within my distant vision ; near the lean grey Downs which keep watch and ward between the country and the sea ; very near , nay , in the lap of Mother Earth , for as I write I am lying on a green carpet , powdered yellow and white with the sun 's own flowers ; overhead a great sycamore where the bees toil and sing ; and sighing shimmering poplars golden grey against the blue .
The day of Persephone has dawned for me , and I , set free like Demeter 's child , gladden my eyes with this foretaste of coming radiance , and rest my tired sense with the scent and sound of home .
Away down the meadow I hear the early scythe song , and the warm air is fragrant with the fallen grass .
It has its own message for me as I lie here , I who have obtained yet one more mercy , and the burden of it is life , not death .
I remember when , taking a grace from my road , I helped to mow Farmer Marler 's ten - acre field , rich in ripe upstanding grass .
The mechanism of the ancient reaper had given way under the strain of the home meadows , and if this crop was to be saved it must be by hand .
I have kept the record of those days of joyous labour under a June sky .
Men were hard to get in our village ; old Dodden , who was over seventy , volunteered his services - he had done yeoman work with the scythe in his youth - and two of the farm hands with their master completed our strength .
We took our places under a five o'clock morning sky , and the larks cried down to us as we stood knee - deep in the fragrant dew - steeped grass , each man with his gleaming scythe poised ready for its sweeping swing .
Old Dodden led by right of age and ripe experience ; bent like a sickle , brown and dry as a nut , his face a tracery of innumerable wrinkles , he has never ailed a day , and the cunning of his craft was still with him .
At first we worked stiffly , unreadily , but soon the monotonous motion possessed us with its insistent rhythm , and the grass bowed to each sibilant swish and fell in sweet - smelling swathes at our feet .
Now and then a startled rabbit scurried through the miniature forest to vanish with white flick of tail in the tangled hedge ; here and there a mother lark was discovered sitting motionless , immovable upon her little brood ; but save for these infrequent incidents we paced steadily on with no speech save the cry of the hone on the steel and the swish of the falling swathes .
The sun rose high in the heaven and burnt on bent neck and bare and aching arms , the blood beat and drummed in my veins with the unwonted posture and exercise ; I worked as a man who sees and hears in a mist .
Once , as I paused to whet my scythe , my eye caught the line of the untroubled hills strong and still in the broad sunshine ; then to work again in the labouring , fertile valley .
Rest time came , and wiping the sweat from brow and blade we sought the welcome shadow of the hedge and the cool sweet oatmeal water with which the wise reaper quenches his thirst .
Farmer Marler hastened off to see with master - eye that all went well elsewhere ; the farm men slept tranquilly , stretched at full length , clasped hands for pillow ; and old Dodden , sitting with crooked fingers interlaced to check their trembling betrayal of old age , told how in his youth he had " swep " a four - acre field single - handed in three days - an almost impossible feat - and of the first reaping machine in these parts , and how it brought , to his thinking , the ruin of agricultural morals with it .
" ' Tis again nature , " he said , " the Lard gave us the land an ' the seed , but ' Ee said that a man should sweat .
Where 's the sweat drivin ' round wi ' two horses cuttin ' the straw down an ' gatherin ' it again , wi ' scarce a hand 's turn i ' the day 's work ? "
Old Dodden 's high - pitched quavering voice rose and fell , mournful as he surveyed the present , vehement as he recorded the heroic past .
He spoke of the rural exodus and shook his head mournfully .
" We old ' uns were content wi ' earth and the open sky like our feythers before us , but wi ' the children ' tis first machines to save doin' a hand 's turn o ' honest work , an ' then land an ' sky ai n't big enough seemin'ly , nor grand enough ; it must be town an ' a paved street , an ' they sweat their lives out atwixt four walls an ' call it seein ' life - ' tis death an ' worse comes to the most of 'em .
Ay , ' tis better to stay by the land , as the Lard said , till time comes to lie under it . "
I looked away across the field where the hot air throbbed and quivered , and the fallen grass , robbed already of its freshness , lay prone at the feet of its upstanding fellows .
It is quite useless to argue with old Dodden ; he only shakes his head and says firmly , " An old man , seventy - five come Martinmass knows more o ' life than a young chap , stands ter reason " ; besides , his epitome of the town life he knows nothing of was a just one as far as it went ; and his own son is the sweeper of a Holborn crossing , and many other things that he should not be ; but that is the parson 's secret and mine .
We took rank again and swept steadily on through the hot still hours into the evening shadows , until the sinking sun set a Gloria to the psalm of another working day .
Only a third of the field lay mown , for we were not skilled labourers to cut our acre a day ; I saw it again that night under the moonlight and the starlight , wrapped in a shroud of summer 's mist .
The women joined us on the third day to begin haymaking , and the air was fragrant of tossed and sun - dried grass .
One of them walked apart from the rest , without interest or freedom of movement ; her face , sealed and impassive , was aged beyond the vigour of her years .
I knew the woman by sight , and her history by hearsay .
We have a code of morals here - not indeed peculiar to this place or people - that a wedding is ' respectable ' if it precedes child - birth by a bare month , tolerable , and to be recognised , should it succeed the same by less than a year ( provided the pair are not living in the same village ) ; but the child that has never been ' fathered ' and the wife without a ring are ' anathema , ' and such in one was Elizabeth Banks .
She went away a maid and came back a year ago with a child and without a name .
Her mother was dead , her father and the village would have none of her : the homing instinct is very strong , or she would scarcely have returned , knowing the traditions of the place .
Old Dodden , seeing her , grumbled to me in the rest - time .
- " Ca n't think what the farmer wants wi ' Lizzie Banks in ' is field . "
" She must live , " I said , " and by all showing her life is a hard one . "
" She ' ad the makin ' of ' er bed , " he went on , obstinately .
" What for do she bring her disgrace home , wi ' a fatherless brat for all folks to see ?
We do n't want them sort in our village .
The Lord 's hand is heavy , an ' a brat 's a curse that can not be hid . "
When tea - time came I crossed the field to look for a missing hone , and saw Elizabeth Banks far from the other women , busied with a bundle under the hedge .
I passed close on my search , and lo !
the bundle was a little boy .
He lay smiling and stretching , fighting the air with his small pink fists , while the wind played with his curls .
" A curse that can not be hid , " old Dodden had said .
The mother knelt a moment , devouring him with her eyes , then snatched him to her with aching greed and covered him with kisses .
I saw the poor , plain face illumined , transfigured , alive with a mother 's love , and remembered how the word came once to a Hebrew prophet : - Say unto your brethren Ammi , and to your sisters Ruhamah .
The evening sky was clouding fast , the sound of rain was in the air ; Farmer Marler shook his head as he looked at the grass lying in ordered rows .
I was the last to leave , and as I lingered at the gate drinking in the scent of the field and the cool of the coming rain , the first drops fell on my upturned face and kissed the poor dry swathes at my feet , and I was glad .
David , child of the fields and the sheepfolds , his kingship laid aside , sees through the parted curtain of the years the advent of his greater Son , and cries in his psalm of the hilltops , his last prophetic prayer : - He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass .
Even so He came , and shall still come .
Three days ago the field , in its pageant of fresh beauty , with shimmering blades and tossing banners , greeted sun and shower alike with joy for the furtherance of its life and purpose ; now , laid low , it hears the young grass whisper the splendour of its coming green ; and the poor swathes are glad at the telling , but full of grief for their own apparent failure .
Then in great pity comes the rain , the rain of summer , gentle , refreshing , penetrating , and the swathes are comforted , for they know that standing to greet or prostrate to suffer , the consolations of the former and the latter rain are still their own , with tender touch and cool caress .
Then , once more parched by the sun , they are borne away to the new service their apparent failure has fitted them for ; and perhaps as they wait in the dark for the unknown that is still to come they hear sometimes the call of the distant rain , and at the sound the dry sap stirs afresh - they are not forgotten and can wait . "
Say unto your sisters Ruhamah , " cries the prophet . "
He shall come down like rain on the mown grass , " sang the poet of the sheepfolds . "
My ways are not your ways , saith the Lord . "
I remember how I went home along the damp sweet - scented lanes through the grey mist of the rain , thinking of the mown field and Elizabeth Banks and many , many more ; and that night , when the sky had cleared and the nightingale sang , I looked out at the moon riding at anchor , a silver boat in a still blue sea ablaze with the headlights of the stars , and the saying of the herdsman of Tekoa came to me - as it has come oftentimes since : - Seek Him that maketh the seven stars and Orion , and turneth the shadow of death into the morning , and maketh the day dark with night ; that calleth for the waters of the sea and poureth them out upon the face of earth ; the Lord is His name .
CHAPTER II THIS garden is an epitome of peace ; sun and wind , rain , flowers , and birds gather me into the blessedness of their active harmony .
The world holds no wish for me , now that I have come home to die with my own people , for verify I think that the sap of grass and trees must run in my veins , so steady is their pull upon my heart - strings .
London claimed all my philosophy , but the country gives all , and asks of me only the warm receptivity of a child in its mother 's arms .
When I lie in my cool light room on the garden level , I look across the bright grass - il verde smalto - to a great red rose bush in lavish disarray against the dark cypress .
Near by , amid a tangle of many - hued corn - flowers I see the promise of coming lilies , the sudden crimson of a solitary pony ; and in lowlier state against the poor parched earth glow the golden cups of the eschseholtzias .
Beyond the low hedge lies pasture bright with buttercups , where the cattle feed .
Farther off , where the scythe has been busy , are sheep , clean and shorn , with merry , well - grown lambs ; and in the farthest field I can see the great horses moving in slow steady pace as the farmer turns his furrow .
The birds are noisy comrades and old friends , from the lark which chants the dew - steeped morning , to the nightingale that breaks the silence of the most wonderful nights .
I hear the wisdom of the rooks in the great elms ; the lifting lilt of the linnet , and the robin 's quaint little summer song .
The starlings chatter ceaselessly , their queer strident voices harsh against the melodious gossip of the other birds ; the martins shrill softly as they swoop to and fro busied with their nesting under the caves ; thrush and blackbird vie in friendly rivalry like the Meister - singer of old ; sometimes I hear the drawling cry of a peacock strayed from the great house , or the laugh of the woodpecker ; and at night the hunting note of the owl reaches me as he sweeps by in search of prey .
To - day I am out again ; and the great sycamore showers honey and flowers on me as I lie beneath it .
Sometimes a bee falls like an over - ripe fruit , and waits awhile to clean his pollen - coated legs ere he flies home to discharge his burden .
He is too busy to be friendly , but his great velvety cousin is much more sociable , and stays for a gentle rub between his noisy shimmering wings , and a nap in the hollow of my hand , for he is an idle friendly soul with plenty of time at his own disposal and no responsibilities .
Looking across I can watch the martins at work ; they have a starling and a sparrow for near neighbours in the wooden gutter .
One nest is already complete all but the coping , the other two are a - building : I wonder whether I or they will be first to go south through the mist .
This great tree is a world in itself , and the denizens appear full of curiosity as to the Gulliver who has taken up his abode beneath it .
Pale green caterpillars and spiders of all sizes come spinning down to visit me , and have to be persuaded with infinite difficulty to ascend their threads again .
There are flies with beautiful iridescent wings , beetles of all shapes , some of them like tiny jewels in the sunlight .
Their nomenclature is a sealed book to me ; of their life and habits I know nothing ; yet this is but a little corner of the cosmos I am leaving , and I feel not so much desire for the beauty to come , as a great longing to open my eyes a little wider during the time which remains to me in this beautiful world of God 's making , where each moment tells its own tale of active , progressive life in which there is no undoing .
Nature knows naught of the web of Penelope , that acme of anxious pathetic waiting , but goes steadily on in ever widening circle towards the fulfilment of the mystery of God .
There are , I take it , two master - keys to the secrets of the universe , viewed sub specie ternitatis , the Incarnation of God , and the Personality of Man ; with these it is true for us as for the pantheistic little man of contemptible speech , that " all things are ours , " yea , even unto the third heaven .
I have lost my voracious appetite for books ; their language is less plain than scent and song and the wind in the trees ; and for me the clue to the next world lies in the wisdom of earth rather than in the learning of men . "
Libera me ab fuscina Hophni , " prayed the good Bishop fearful of religious greed .
I know too much , not too little ; it is realisation that I lack , wherefore I desire these last days to confirm in myself the sustaining goodness of God , the love which is our continuing city , the New Jerusalem whose length , breadth , and height are all one .
It is a time of exceeding peace .
There is a place waiting for me under the firs in the quiet churchyard ; thanks to my poverty I have no worldly anxieties or personal dispositions ; and I am rich in friends , many of them unknown to me , who lavishly supply my needs and make it ideal to live on the charity of one 's fellow - men .
I am most gladly in debt to all the world ; and to Earth , my mother , for her great beauty .
I can never remember the time when I did not love her , this mother of mine with her wonderful garments and ordered loveliness , her tender care and patient bearing of man 's burden .
In the earliest days of my lonely childhood I used to lie chin on hand amid the milkmaids , red sorrel , and heavy spear - grass listening to her many voices , and above all to the voice of the little brook which ran through the meadows where I used to play : I think it has run through my whole life also , to lose itself at last , not in the great sea but in the river that maketh glad the City of God .
Valley and plain , mountain and fruitful field ; the lark 's song and the speedwell in the grass ; surely a man need not sigh for greater loveliness until he has read something more of this living letter , and knelt before that earth of which he is the only confusion .
It is a grave matter that the word religion holds such away among us , making the very gap seem to yawn again which the Incarnation once and for ever filled full .
We have banished the protecting gods that ruled in river and mountain , tree and grove ; we have gainsayed for the most part folk - lore and myth , superstition and fairy - tale , evil only in their abuse .
We have done away with mystery , or named it deceit .
All this we have done in an enlightened age , but despite this policy of destruction we have left ourselves a belief , the grandest and most simple the world has ever known , which sanctifies the water that is shed by every passing cloud ; and gathers up in its great central act vineyard and cornfield , proclaiming them to be that Life of the world without which a man is dead while he liveth .
Further , it is a belief whose foundations are the most heavenly mystery of the Trinity , but whose centre is a little Child : it sets a price upon the head of the sparrow , and reckons the riches of this world at their true value ; it points to a way of holiness where the fool shall not err , and the sage may find the realisation of his far - seeking ; and yet , despite its inclusiveness , it is a belief which can not save the birds from destruction , the silent mountains from advertisement , or the stream from pollution , in an avowedly Christian land .
John Ruskin scolded and fought and did yeoman service , somewhat hindered by his over - good conceit of himself ; but it is not the worship of beauty we need so much as the beauty of holiness .
Little by little the barrier grows and ' religion ' becomes a rule of life , not life itself , although the Bride stands ready to interpret , likened in her loveliness to the chief treasures of her handmaid - Earth .
There is more truth in the believing cry , " Come from thy white cliffs , O Pan ! "
than in the religion that measures a man 's life by the letter of the Ten Commandments , and erects itself as judge and ruler over him , instead of throwing open the gate of the garden where God walks with man from morning until morning .
As I write the sun is setting ; in the pale radiance of the sky above his glory there dawns the evening star ; and earth like a tired child turns her face to the bosom of the night .
CHAPTER III ONCE again I have paid a rare visit to my tree to find many things changed since my last sojourn there .
The bees are silent , for the honey - laden flowers of the sycamore are gone and in their place hang dainty two - fold keys .
The poplar has lost its metallic shimmer , the chestnut its tall white candles ; and the sound of the wind in the fully - leaved branches is like the sighing of the sea .
The martins ' nests are finished , and one is occupied by a shrill - voiced brood ; but for the most part the birds ' parental cares are over , and the nestlings in bold flight no longer flutter on inefficient wings across the lawn with clamorous , open bill .
The robins show promise of their ruddy vests , the slim young thrush is diligently practising maturer notes , and soon Maid June will have fled .
It is such a wonderful world that I can not find it in my heart to sigh for fresh beauty amid these glories of the Lord on which I look , seeing men as trees walking , in my material impotence which awaits the final anointing .
The marigolds with their orange suns , the lilies ' white flame , the corncockle 's blue crown of many flowers , the honeysuckle 's horn of fragrance - I can paraphrase them , name , class , dissect them ; and then , save for the purposes of human intercourse , I stand where I stood before , my world bounded by my capacity , the secret of colour and fragrance still kept .
It is difficult to believe that the second lesson will not be the sequence of the first , and death prove a " feast of opening eyes " to all these wonders , instead of the heavy - lidded slumber to which we so often liken it .
" Earth to earth ? "
Yes , " dust thou art , and unto dust thou shalt return , " but what of the rest ?
What of the folded grave clothes , and the Forty Days ?
If the next state be , as it well might , space of four dimensions , and the first veil which will lift for me be the material one , then the " other " world which is hidden from our grosser material organism will lie open , and declare still further to my widening eyes and unstopped ears the glory and purpose of the manifold garment of God .
Knowledge will give place to understanding in that second chamber of the House of Wisdom and Love .
Revelation is always measured by capacity : " Open thy mouth wide , " and it shall be filled with a satisfaction that in itself is desire .
There is a child here , a happy quiet little creature holding gently to its two months of life .
Sometimes they lay it beside me , I the more helpless of the two - perhaps the more ignorant - and equally dependent for the supply of my smallest need .
I feel indecently large as I survey its minute perfections and the tiny balled fist lying in my great palm .
The little creature fixes me with the wise wide stare of a soul in advance of its medium of expression ; and I , gazing back at the mystery in those eyes , feel the thrill of contact between my worn and sustained self and the innocence of a little white child .
It is wonderful to watch a woman 's rapturous familiarity with these newcomers .
A man 's love has far more awe in it , and the passionate animal instinct of defence is wanting in him .
" A woman shall be saved through the child - bearing , " said St Paul ; not necessarily her own , but by participation in the great act of motherhood which is the crown and glory of her sex .
She is the " prisoner of love , " caught in a net of her own weaving ; held fast by little hands which rule by impotence , pursued by feet the swifter for their faltering .
It seems incredible that this is what a woman will barter for the right to " live her own life " - surely the most empty of desires .
Man - vir , woman - femina , go to make up the man - homo .
There can be no comparison , no rivalry between them ; they are the complement of each other , and a little child shall lead them .
It is easy to understand that desire to shelter under the dear mantle of motherhood which has led to one of the abuses of modern Romanism .
I met an old peasant couple at Bornhofen who had tramped many weary miles to the famous shrine of Our Lady to plead for their only son .
They had a few pence saved for a candle , and afterwards when they told me their tale the old woman heaved a sigh of relief , " Es wird bald gut gehen : Die da , Sie versteht , " and I saw her later paying a farewell visit to the great understanding Mother whom she could trust .
Superstitious misapprehension if you will , but also the recognition of a divine principle .
It was Behmen , I believe , who cried with the breath of inspiration , " Only when I know God shall I know myself " ; and so man remains the last of all the riddles , to be solved it may be only in Heaven 's perfection and the light of the Beatific Vision .
" Know thyself " is a vain legend , the more so when emphasised by a skull ; and so I company with a friend and a stranger , and looking across at the white gate I wonder concerning the quiet pastures and still waters that lie beyond , even as Brother Ambrose wondered long years ago in the monastery by the forest .
The Brother Ambrose was ever a saintly man approved of God and beloved by the Brethren .
To him one night , as he lay abed in the dormitory , came the word of the Lord , saying , " Come , and I will show thee the Bride , the Lamb 's wife . "
And Brother Ambrose arose and was carried to a great and high mountain , even as in the Vision of Blessed John .
' Twas a still night of many stars , and Brother Ambrose , looking up , saw a radiant path in the heavens ; and lo !
the stars gathered themselves together on either side until they stood as walls of light , and the four winds lapped him about as in a mantle and bore him towards the wondrous gleaming roadway .
Then between the stars came the Holy City with roof and pinnacle aflame , and walls aglow with such colours as no earthly limner dreams of , and much gold .
Brother Ambrose beheld the Gates of Pearl , and by every gate an angel with wings of snow and fire , and a face no man dare look on because of its exceeding radiance .
Then as Brother Ambrose stretched out his arms because of his great longing , a little grey cloud came out of the north and hung between the walls of light , so that he no longer beheld the Vision , but only heard a sound as of a great multitude crying ' Alleluia ' ; and suddenly the winds came about him again , and lo !
he found himself in his bed in the dormitory , and it was midnight , for the bell was ringing to Matins ; and he rose and went down with the rest .
But when the Brethren left the choir Brother Ambrose stayed fast in his place , hearing and seeing nothing because of the Vision of God ; and at Lauds they found him and told the Prior .
He questioned Brother Ambrose of the matter , and when he heard the Vision bade him limn the Holy City even as he had seen it ; and the Precentor gave him uterine vellum and much fine gold and what colours he asked for the work .
Then Brother Ambrose limned a wondrous fair city of gold with turrets and spires ; and he inlaid blue for the sapphire , and green for the emerald , and vermilion where the city seemed aflame with the glory of God ; but the angels he could not limn , nor could he set the rest of the colours as he saw them , nor the wall of stars on either hand ; and Brother Ambrose fell sick because of the exceeding great longing he had to limn the Holy City , and was very sad ; but the Prior bade him thank God , and remember the infirmity of the flesh , which , like the little grey cloud , veiled Jerusalem to his sight .
As I write the monastery bell hard by rings out across the lark 's song .
They still have time for visions behind those guarding walls , but for most of us it is not so .
We let slip the ideal for what we call the real , and the golden dreams vanish while we clutch at phantoms : we speed along life 's pathway , counting to the full the sixty minutes of every hour , yet the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong .
Lying here in this quiet backwater it is hard to believe that the world without is turbulent with storm and stress and the ebb and flow of uncertain tides .
The little yellow cat rolling on its back among the daisies , the staid tortoise making a stately meal off the buttercups near me , these are great events in this haven of peace .
And yet , looking back to the working days , I know how much goodness and loving kindness there is under the froth and foam .
If we do not know ourselves we most certainly do not know our brethren : that revelation awaits us , it may be , first in Heaven .
To have faith is to create ; to have hope is to call down blessing ; to have love is to work miracles .
Above all let us see visions , visions of colour and light , of green fields and broad rivers , of palaces laid with fair colours , and gardens where a place is found for rosemary and rue .
It is our prerogative to be dreamers , but there will always be men ready to offer us death for our dreams .
And if it must be so let us choose death ; it is gain , not loss , and the gloomy portal when we reach it is but a white gate , the white gate maybe we have known all our lives barred by the tendrils of the woodbine .
CHAPTER IV RAIN , rain , rain : the little flagged path outside my window is a streaming way , where the coming raindrops meet again the grey clouds whose storehouse they have but just now left .
The grass grows greener as I watch it , the burnt patches fade , a thousand thirsty beads are uplifted for the cooling draught .
The great thrush that robs the raspberry canes is busy ; yesterday he had little but dust for his guerdon , but now fresh , juicy fruit repays him as he swings to and fro on the pliant branches .
The blackbirds and starlings find the worms an easy prey - poor brother worm ever ready for sacrifice .
I can hear the soft expectant chatter of the family of martins under the roof ; there will be good hunting , and they know it , for the flies are out when the rain is over , and there are clamorous mouths awaiting .
My little brown brothers , the sparrows , remain my chief delight .
Of all the birds these nestle closest to my heart , be they grimy little cockneys or their trim and dainty country cousins .
They come day by day for their meed of crumbs spread for them outside my window , and at this season they eat leisurely and with good appetite , for there are no hungry babies pestering to be fed .
Very early in the morning I hear the whirr and rustle of eager wings , and the tap , tap , of little beaks upon the stone .
The sound carries me back , for it was the first to greet me when I rose to draw water and gather kindling in my roadmender days ; and if I slip back another decade they survey me , reproving my laziness , from the foot of the narrow bed in my little attic overseas .
Looking along the roadway that we have travelled we see the landmarks , great and small , which have determined the direction of our feet .
For some those of childhood stand out above all the rest ; but I remember few notable ones , and those few the emphatic chord of the universe , rather than any commerce with my fellows .
There was the night of my great disappointment , when I was borne from my comfortable bed to see the wonders of the moon 's eclipse .
Disappointment was so great that it sealed my lips ; but , once back on my pillow , I sobbed for grief that I had seen a wonder so far below my expectation .
Then there was a night at Whitby , when the wind made speech impossible , and the seas rushed up and over the great lighthouse like the hungry spirits of the deep .
I like better to remember the scent of the first cowslip field under the warm side of the hedge , when I sang to myself for pure joy of their colour and fragrance .
Again , there were the bluebells in the deserted quarry like the backwash of a southern sea , and below them the miniature forest of sheltering bracken with its quaint conceits ; and , crowned above all , the day I stood on Watcombe Down , and looked across a stretch of golden gorse and new - turned blood - red field , the green of the headland , and beyond , the sapphire sea .
Time sped , and there came a day when I first set foot on German soil and felt the throb of its paternity , the beat of our common Life .
England is my mother , and most dearly do I love her swelling breasts and wind - swept , salt - strewn hair .
Scotland gave me my name , with its haunting derivation handed down by brave men ; but Germany has always been to me the Fatherland par excellence .
True , my love is limited to the southern provinces , with their medieval memories ; for the progressive guttural north I have little sympathy , but the Rhine claimed me from the first , calling , calling , with that wonderful voice which speaks of death and life , of chivalry and greed of gold .
If you would have the river 's company you should wander , a happy solitary , along its banks , watching its gleaming current in the early morning , its golden glory as it answers the farewell of parting day .
Then , in the silence of the night , you can hear the wash and eddy calling one to another , count the heart - beats of the great bearer of burdens , and watch in the moonlight the sisters of the mist as they lament with wringing hands the days that are gone .
The forests , too , are ready with story hid in the fastness of their solitude , and it is a joy to think that those great pines , pointing ever upwards , go for the most part to carry the sails of great ships seeking afar under open sky .
The forest holds other wonders still .
It seems but last night that I wandered down the road which led to the little unheeded village where I had made my temporary home .
The warm - scented breath of the pines and the stillness of the night wrapped me in great content ; the summer lightning leapt in a lambent arch across the east , and the stars , seen dimly through the sombre tree crests , were outrivalled by the glow - worms which shone in countless points of light from bank and hedge ; even two charcoal - burners , who passed with friendly greeting , had wreathed their hats with the living flame .
The tiny shifting lamps were everywhere ; pale yellow , purely white , or green as the underside of a northern wave .
By day but an ugly , repellent worm ; but darkness comes , and lo , a star alight .
Nature is full for us of seeming inconsistencies and glad surprises .
The world 's asleep , say you ; on your ear falls the nightingale 's song and the stir of living creatures in bush and brake .
The mantle of night falls , and all unattended the wind leaps up and scatters the clouds which veil the constant stars ; or in the hour of the great dark , dawn parts the curtain with the long foregleam of the coming day .
It is hard to turn one 's back on night with her kiss of peace for tired eye - lids , the kiss which is not sleep but its neglected forerunner .
I made my way at last down to the vine - girt bridge asleep under the stars and up the winding stairs of the old grey tower ; and a stone 's - throw away the Rhine slipped quietly past in the midsummer moonlight .
Switzerland came in its turn , unearthly in its white loveliness and glory of lake and sky .
But perhaps the landmark which stands out most clearly is the solitary blue gentian which I found in the short slippery grass of the Rigi , gazing up at the sky whose blue could not hope to excel it .
It was my first ; and what need of another , for finding one I had gazed into the mystery of all .
This side the Pass , snow and the blue of heaven ; later I entered Italy through fields of many - hued lilies , her past glories blazoned in the flowers of the field .
Now it is a strangely uneventful road that leads to my White Gate .
Each day questions me as it passes ; each day makes answer for me " not yet . "
There is no material preparation to be made for this journey of mine into a far country - a simple fact which adds to the ' unknowableness ' of the other side .
Do I travel alone , or am I one of a great company , swift yet unhurried in their passage ?
The voices of Penelope 's suitors shrilled on the ears of Ulysses , as they journeyed to the nether - world , like nocturnal birds and bats in the inarticulateness of their speech .
They had abused the gift , and fled self - condemned .
Maybe silence commends itself as most suitable for the wayfarers towards the sunrise - silence because they seek the Word - but for those hastening towards the confusion they have wrought there falls already the sharp oncoming of the curse .
While we are still here the language of worship seems far , and yet lies very nigh ; for what better note can our frail tongues lisp than the voice of wind and sea , river and stream , those grateful servants giving all and asking nothing , the soft whisper of snow and rain eager to replenish , or the thunder proclaiming a majesty too great for utterance ?
Here , too , stands the angel with the censer gathering up the fragrance of teeming earth and forest - tree , of flower and fruit , and sweetly pungent herb distilled by sun and rain for joyful use .
Here , too , come acolytes lighting the dark with tapers - sun , moon , and stars - gifts of the Lord that His sanctuary may stand ever served .
It lies here ready to our hand , this life of adoration which we needs must live hand in hand with earth , for has she not borne the curse with us ?
But beyond the white gate and the trail of woodbine falls the silence greater than speech , darkness greater than light , a pause of " a little while " ; and then the touch of that healing garment as we pass to the King in His beauty , in a land from which there is no return .
At the gateway then I cry you farewell .
Beneath the stagnant water shadowed by water lilies Harry found the fascinating world of the rotifers - but it was their world , and they resented intrusion .
Illustrated by Virgil Finlay Henry Chatham knelt by the brink of his garden pond , a glass fish bowl cupped in his thin , nervous hands .
Carefully he dipped the bowl into the green - scummed water and , moving it gently , let trailing streamers of submerged water weeds drift into it .
Then he picked up the old scissors he had laid on the bank , and clipped the stems of the floating plants , getting as much of them as he could in the container .
When he righted the bowl and got stiffly to his feet , it contained , he thought hopefully , a fair cross - section of fresh - water plankton .
He was pleased with himself for remembering that term from the book he had studied assiduously for the last few nights in order to be able to cope with Harry 's inevitable questions .
There was even a shiny black water beetle doing insane circles on the surface of the water in the fish bowl .
At sight of the insect , the eyes of the twelve - year - old boy , who had been standing by in silent expectation , widened with interest .
" What 's that thing , Dad ? "
he asked excitedly .
" What 's that crazy bug ? "
" I do n't know its scientific name , I 'm afraid , " said Henry Chatham .
" But when I was a boy we used to call them whirligig beetles . "
" He does n't seem to think he has enough room in the bowl , " said Harry thoughtfully .
" Maybe we better put him back in the pond , Dad . "
" I thought you might want to look at him through the microscope , " the father said in some surprise .
" I think we ought to put him back , " insisted Harry .
Mr. Chatham held the dripping bowl obligingly .
Harry 's hand , a thin boy 's hand with narrow sensitive fingers , hovered over the water , and when the beetle paused for a moment in its gyrations , made a dive for it .
But the whirligig beetle saw the hand coming , and , quicker than a wink , plunged under the water and scooted rapidly to the very bottom of the bowl .
Harry 's young face was rueful ; he wiped his wet hand on his trousers .
" I guess he wants to stay , " he supposed .
The two went up the garden path together and into the house , Mr. Chatham bearing the fish bowl before him like a votive offering .
Harry 's mother met them at the door , brandishing an old towel .
" Here , " she said firmly , " you wipe that thing off before you bring it in the house .
And do n't drip any of that dirty pond water on my good carpet . "
" It 's not dirty , " said Henry Chatham .
" It 's just full of life , plants and animals too small for the eye to see .
But Harry 's going to see them with his microscope . "
He accepted the towel and wiped the water and slime from the outside of the bowl ; then , in the living - room , he set it beside an open window , where the life - giving summer sun slanted in and fell on the green plants .
- The brand - new microscope stood nearby , in a good light .
It was an expensive microscope , no toy for a child , and it magnified four hundred diameters .
Henry Chatham had bought it because he believed that his only son showed a desire to peer into the mysteries of smallness , and so far Harry had not disappointed him ; he had been ecstatic over the instrument .
Together they had compared hairs from their two heads , had seen the point of a fine sewing needle made to look like the tip of a crowbar by the lowest power of the microscope , had made grains of salt look like discarded chunks of glass brick , had captured a house - fly and marvelled at its clawed hairy feet , its great red faceted eyes , and the delicate veining and fringing of its wings .
Harry was staring at the bowl of pond water in a sort of fascination .
" Are there germs in the water , Dad ?
Mother says pond water is full of germs . "
" I suppose so , " answered Mr. Chatham , somewhat embarrassed .
The book on microscopic fresh - water fauna had been explicit about Paramecium and Euglena , diatomes and rhizopods , but it had failed to mention anything so vulgar as germs .
But he supposed that which the book called Protozoa , the one - celled animalcules , were the same as germs .
He said , " To look at things in water like this , you want to use a well - slide .
It tells how to fix one in the instruction book . "
He let Harry find the glass slide with a cup ground into it , and another smooth slip of glass to cover it .
Then he half - showed , half - told him how to scrape gently along the bottom sides of the drifting leaves , to capture the teeming life that dwelt there in the slime .
When the boy understood , his young hands were quickly more skillful than his father 's ; they filled the well with a few drops of water that was promisingly green and murky .
Already Harry knew how to adjust the lighting mirror under the stage of the microscope and turn the focusing screws .
He did so , bent intently over the eyepiece , squinting down the polished barrel in the happy expectation of wonders .
Henry Chatham 's eyes wandered to the fish bowl , where the whirligig beetle had come to the top again and was describing intricate patterns among the water plants .
He looked back to his son , and saw that Harry had ceased to turn the screws and instead was just looking - looking with a rapt , delicious fixity .
His hands lay loosely clenched on the table top , and he hardly seemed to breathe .
Only once or twice his lips moved as if to shape an exclamation that was snatched away by some new vision .
" Have you got it , Harry ? "
asked his father after two or three minutes during which the boy did not move .
Harry took a last long look , then glanced up , blinking slightly .
" You look , Dad ! "
he exclaimed warmly .
" It 's - it 's like a garden in the water , full of funny little people ! "
Mr. Chatham , not reluctantly , bent to gaze into the eyepiece .
This was new to him too , and instantly he saw the aptness of Harry 's simile .
There was a garden there , of weird , green , transparent stalks composed of plainly visible cells fastened end to end , with globules and bladders like fruits or seed - pods attached to them , floating among them ; and in the garden the strange little people swam to and fro , or clung with odd appendages to the stalks and branches .
Their bodies were transparent like the plants , and in them were pulsing hearts and other organs plainly visible .
They looked a little like sea horses with pointed tails , but their heads were different , small and rounded , with big , dark , glistening eyes .
All at once Mr. Chatham realized that Harry was speaking to him , still in high excitement .
" What are they , Dad ? "
he begged to know .
His father straightened up and shook his head puzzledly .
" I do n't know , Harry , " he answered slowly , casting about in his memory .
He seemed to remember a microphotograph of a creature like those in the book he had studied , but the name that had gone with it eluded him .
He had worked as an accountant for so many years that his memory was all for figures now .
He bent over once more to immerse his eyes and mind in the green water - garden on the slide .
The little creatures swam to and fro as before , growing hazy and dwindling or swelling as they swam out of the narrow focus of the lens ; he gazed at those who paused in sharp definition , and saw that , although he had at first seen no visible means of propulsion , each creature bore about its head a halo of thread - like , flickering cilia that lashed the water and drew it forward , for all the world like an airplane propeller or a rapidly turning wheel .
" I know what they are ! "
exclaimed Henry Chatham , turning to his son with an almost boyish excitement .
" They 're rotifers !
That means ' wheel - bearers ' , and they were called that because to the first scientists who saw them it looked like they swam with wheels . "
Harry had got down the book and was leafing through the pages .
He looked up seriously .
" Here they are , " he said .
" Here 's a picture that looks almost like the ones in our pond water . "
" Let 's see , " said his father .
They looked at the pictures and descriptions of the Rotifera ; there was a good deal of concrete information on the habits and physiology of these odd and complex little animals who live their swarming lives in the shallow , stagnant waters of the Earth .
It said that they were much more highly organized than Protozoa , having a discernible heart , brain , digestive system , and nervous system , and that their reproduction was by means of two sexes like that of the higher orders .
Beyond that , they were a mystery ; their relationship to other life - forms remained shrouded in doubt .
" You 've got something interesting there , " said Henry Chatham with satisfaction .
" Maybe you 'll find out something about them that nobody knows yet . "
He was pleased when Harry spent all the rest of that Sunday afternoon peering into the microscope , watching the rotifers , and even more pleased when the boy found a pencil and paper and tried , in an amateurish way , to draw and describe what he saw in the green water - garden .
Beyond a doubt , Henry thought , here was a hobby that had captured Harry as nothing else ever had .
- Mrs. Chatham was not so pleased .
When her husband laid down his evening paper and went into the kitchen for a drink of water , she cornered him and hissed at him : " I told you you had no business buying Harry a thing like that !
If he keeps on at this rate , he 'll wear his eyes out in no time . "
Henry Chatham set down his water glass and looked straight at his wife .
" Sally , Harry 's eyes are young and he 's using them to learn with .
You 've never been much worried over me , using my eyes up eight hours a day , five days a week , over a blind - alley bookkeeping job . "
He left her angrily silent and went back to his paper .
He would lower the paper every now and then to watch Harry , in his corner of the living - room , bowed obliviously over the microscope and the secret life of the rotifers .
Once the boy glanced up from his periodic drawing and asked , with the air of one who proposes a pondered question : " Dad , if you look through a microscope the wrong way is it a telescope ? "
Mr. Chatham lowered his paper and bit his underlip .
" I do n't think so - no , I do n't know .
When you look through a microscope , it makes things seem closer - one way , that is ; if you looked the other way , it would probably make them seem farther off .
What did you want to know for ? "
" Oh - nothing , " Harry turned back to his work .
As if on after - thought , he explained , " I was wondering if the rotifers could see me when I 'm looking at them . "
Mr. Chatham laughed , a little nervously , because the strange fancies which his son sometimes voiced upset his ordered mind .
Remembering the dark glistening eyes of the rotifers he had seen , however , he could recognize whence this question had stemmed .
At dusk , Harry insisted on setting up the substage lamp which had been bought with the microscope , and by whose light he could go on looking until his bedtime , when his father helped him arrange a wick to feed the little glass - covered well in the slide so it would not dry up before morning .
It was unwillingly , and only after his mother 's strenuous complaints , that the boy went to bed at ten o'clock .
In the following days his interest became more and more intense .
He spent long hours , almost without moving , watching the rotifers .
For the little animals had become the sole object which he desired to study under the microscope , and even his father found it difficult to understand such an enthusiasm .
During the long hours at the office to which he commuted , Henry Chatham often found the vision of his son , absorbed with the invisible world that the microscope had opened to him , coming between him and the columns in the ledgers .
And sometimes , too , he envisioned the dim green water - garden where the little things swam to and fro , and a strangeness filled his thoughts .
On Wednesday evening , he glanced at the fish bowl and noticed that the water beetle , the whirligig beetle , was missing .
Casually , he asked his son about it .
" I had to get rid of him , " said the boy with a trace of uneasiness in his manner .
" I took him out and squashed him . "
" Why did you have to do that ? "
" He was eating the rotifers and their eggs , " said Harry , with what seemed to be a touch of remembered anger at the beetle .
He glanced toward his work - table , where three or four well - slides with small green pools under their glass covers now rested in addition to the one that was under the microscope .
" How did you find out he was eating them ? "
inquired Mr. Chatham , feeling a warmth of pride at the thought that Harry had discovered such a scientific fact for himself .
The boy hesitated oddly .
" I - I looked it up in the book , " he answered .
His father masked his faint disappointment .
" That 's fine , " he said .
" I guess you find out more about them all the time . "
" Uh - huh , " admitted Harry , turning back to his table .
There was undoubtedly something a little strange about Harry 's manner ; and now Mr. Chatham realized that it had been two days since Harry had asked him to " Quick , take a look ! "
at the newest wonder he had discovered .
With this thought teasing at his mind , the father walked casually over to the table where his son sat hunched and , looking down at the litter of slides and papers - some of which were covered with figures and scribblings of which he could make nothing .
He said diffidently , " How about a look ? "
Harry glanced up as if startled .
He was silent a moment ; then he slid reluctantly from his chair and said , " All right . "
Mr. Chatham sat down and bent over the microscope .
Puzzled and a little hurt , he twirled the focusing vernier and peered into the eyepiece , looking down once more into the green water world of the rotifers .
- There was a swarm of them under the lens , and they swam lazily to and fro , their cilia beating like miniature propellers .
Their dark eyes stared , wet and glistening ; they drifted in the motionless water , and clung with sucker - like pseudo - feet to the tangled plant stems .
Then , as he almost looked away , one of them detached itself from the group and swam upward , toward him , growing larger and blurring as it rose out of the focus of the microscope .
The last thing that remained defined , before it became a shapeless gray blob and vanished , was the dark blotches of the great cold eyes , seeming to stare full at him - cold , motionless , but alive .
It was a curious experience .
Henry Chatham drew suddenly back from the eyepiece , with an involuntary shudder that he could not explain to himself .
He said haltingly , " They look interesting . "
" Sure , Dad , " said Harry .
He moved to occupy the chair again , and his dark young head bowed once more over the microscope .
His father walked back across the room and sank gratefully into his arm - chair - after all , it had been a hard day at the office .
He watched Harry work the focusing screws as if trying to find something , then take his pencil and begin to write quickly and impatiently .
It was with a guilty feeling of prying that , after Harry had been sent reluctantly to bed , Henry Chatham took a tentative look at those papers which lay in apparent disorder on his son 's work table .
He frowned uncomprehendingly at the things that were written there ; it was neither mathematics nor language , but many of the scribblings were jumbles of letters and figures .
It looked like code , and he remembered that less than a year ago , Harry had been passionately interested in cryptography , and had shown what his father , at least , believed to be a considerable aptitude for such things ....
But what did cryptography have to do with microscopy , or codes with - rotifers ?
Nowhere did there seem to be a key , but there were occasional words and phrases jotted into the margins of some of the sheets .
Mr. Chatham read these , and learned nothing .
" Ca n't dry up , but they can , " said one .
" Beds of germs , " said another .
And in the corner of one sheet , " 1 - Yes .
2 - No . "
The only thing that looked like a translation was the note : " rty34pr is the pond . "
Mr. Chatham shook his head bewilderedly , replacing the sheets carefully as they had been .
Why should Harry want to keep notes on his scientific hobby in code ?
he wondered , rationalizing even as he wondered .
He went to bed still puzzling , but it did not keep him from sleeping , for he was tired .
Then , only the next evening , his wife maneuvered to get him alone with her and burst out passionately : " Henry , I told you that microscope was going to ruin Harry 's eyesight !
I was watching him today when he did n't know I was watching him , and I saw him winking and blinking right while he kept on looking into the thing .
I was minded to stop him then and there , but I want you to assert your authority with him and tell him he ca n't go on . "
Henry Chatham passed one nervous hand over his own aching eyes .
He asked mildly , " Are you sure it was n't just your imagination , Sally ?
After all , a person blinks quite normally , you know . "
" It was not my imagination ! "
snapped Mrs. Chatham .
" I know the symptoms of eyestrain when I see them , I guess .
You 'll have to stop Harry using that thing so much , or else be prepared to buy him glasses . "
" All right , Sally , " said Mr. Chatham wearily .
" I 'll see if I ca n't persuade him to be a little more moderate . "
He went slowly into the living - room .
At the moment , Harry was not using the microscope ; instead , he seemed to be studying one of his cryptic pages of notes .
As his father entered , he looked up sharply and swiftly laid the sheet down - face down .
Perhaps it was n't all Sally 's imagination ; the boy did look nervous , and there was a drawn , white look to his thin young face .
His father said gently , " Harry , Mother tells me she saw you blinking , as if your eyes were tired , when you were looking into the microscope today .
You know if you look too much , it can be a strain on your sight . "
Harry nodded quickly , too quickly , perhaps .
" Yes , Dad , " he said .
" I read that in the book .
It says there that if you close the eye you 're looking with for a little while , it rests you and your eyes do n't get tired .
So I was practising that this afternoon .
Mother must have been watching me then , and got the wrong idea . "
" Oh , " said Henry Chatham .
" Well , it 's good that you 're trying to be careful .
But you 've got your mother worried , and that 's not so good .
I wish , myself , that you would n't spend all your time with the microscope .
Do n't you ever play baseball with the fellows any more ? "
" I have n't got time , " said the boy , with a curious stubborn twist to his mouth .
" I ca n't right now , Dad . "
He glanced toward the microscope .
" Your rotifers wo n't die if you leave them alone for a while .
And if they do , there 'll always be a new crop . "
" But I 'd lose track of them , " said Harry strangely .
" Their lives are so short - they live so awfully fast .
You do n't know how fast they live . "
" I 've seen them , " answered his father .
" I guess they 're fast , all right . "
He did not know quite what to make of it all , so he settled himself in his chair with his paper .
But that night , after Harry had gone later than usual to bed , he stirred himself to take down the book that dealt with life in pond - water .
There was a memory pricking at his mind ; the memory of the water beetle , which Harry had killed because , he said , he was eating the rotifers and their eggs .
And the boy had said he had found that fact in the book .
Mr. Chatham turned through the book ; he read , with aching eyes , all that it said about rotifers .
He searched for information on the beetle , and found there was a whole family of whirligig beetles .
There was some material here on the characteristics and habits of the Gyrinidae , but nowhere did it mention the devouring of rotifers or their eggs among their customs .
He tried the topical index , but there was no help there .
Harry must have lied , thought his father with a whirling head .
But why , why in God 's name should he say he 'd looked a thing up in the book when he must have found it out for himself , the hard way ?
There was no sense in it .
He went back to the book , convinced that , sleepy as he was , he must have missed a point .
The information simply was n't there .
He got to his feet and crossed the room to Harry 's work table ; he switched on the light over it and stood looking down at the pages of mystic notations .
There were more pages now , quite a few .
But none of them seemed to mean anything .
The earlier pictures of rotifers which Harry had drawn had given way entirely to mysterious figures .
Then the simple explanation occurred to him , and he switched off the light with a deep feeling of relief .
Harry had n't really known that the water beetle ate rotifers ; he had just suspected it .
And , with his boy 's respect for fair play , he had hesitated to admit that he had executed the beetle merely on suspicion .
That did n't take the lie away , but it removed the mystery at least .
- Henry Chatham slept badly that night and dreamed distorted dreams .
But when the alarm clock shrilled in the gray of morning , jarring him awake , the dream in which he had been immersed skittered away to the back of his mind , out of knowing , and sat there leering at him with strange , dark , glistening eyes .
He dressed , washed the flat morning taste out of his mouth with coffee , and took his way to his train and the ten - minute ride into the city .
On the way there , instead of snatching a look at the morning paper , he sat still in his seat , head bowed , trying to recapture the dream whose vanishing made him uneasy .
He was superstitious about dreams in an up - to - date way , believing them not warnings from some Beyond outside himself , but from a subsconscious more knowing than the waking conscious mind .
During the morning his work went slowly , for he kept pausing , sometimes in the midst of totalling a column of figures , to grasp at some mocking half - memory of that dream .
At last , elbows on his desk , staring unseeingly at the clock on the wall , in the midst of the subdued murmur of the office , his mind went back to Harry , dark head bowed motionless over the barrel of his microscope , looking , always looking into the pale green water - gardens and the unseen lives of the beings that .... All at once it came to him , the dream he had dreamed .
He had been bending over the microscope , he had been looking into the unseen world , and the horror of what he had seen gripped him now and brought out the chill sweat on his body .
For he had seen his son there in the clouded water , among the twisted glassy plants , his face turned upward and eyes wide in the agonized appeal of the drowning ; and bubbles rising , fading .
But around him had been a swarm of the weird creatures , and they had been dragging him down , down , blurring out of focus , and their great dark eyes glistening wetly , coldly ....
He was sitting rigid at his desk , his work forgotten ; all at once he saw the clock and noticed with a start that it was already eleven a.m. A fear he could not define seized on him , and his hand reached spasmodically for the telephone on his desk .
But before he touched it , it began ringing .
After a moment 's paralysis , he picked up the receiver .
It was his wife 's voice that came shrilly over the wires .
" Henry ! "
she cried .
" Is that you ? "
" Hello , Sally , " he said with stiff lips .
Her voice as she answered seemed to come nearer and go farther away , and he realized that his hand holding the instrument was shaking .
" Henry , you 've got to come home right now .
Harry 's sick .
He 's got a high fever , and he 's been asking for you . "
He moistened his lips and said , " I 'll be right home .
I 'll take a taxi . "
" Hurry ! "
she exclaimed .
" He 's been saying queer things .
I think he 's delirious . "
She paused , and added , " And it 's all the fault of that microscope you bought him ! "
" I 'll be right home , " he repeated dully .
- His wife was not at the door to meet him ; she must be upstairs , in Harry 's bedroom .
He paused in the living room and glanced toward the table that bore the microscope ; the black , gleaming thing still stood there , but he did not see any of the slides , and the papers were piled neatly together to one side .
His eyes fell on the fish bowl ; it was empty , clean and shining .
He knew Harry had n't done those things ; that was Sally 's neatness .
Abruptly , instead of going straight up the stairs , he moved to the table and looked down at the pile of papers .
The one on top was almost blank ; on it was written several times : rty34pr ... rty34pr .... His memory for figure combinations served him ; he remembered what had been written on another page : " rty34pr is the pond . "
That made him think of the pond , lying quiescent under its green scum and trailing plants at the end of the garden .
A step on the stair jerked him around .
It was his wife , of course .
She said in a voice sharp - edged with apprehension : " What are you doing down here ?
Harry wants you .
The doctor has n't come ; I phoned him just before I called you , but he has n't come . "
He did not answer .
Instead he gestured at the pile of papers , the empty fish bowl , an imperative question in his face .
" I threw that dirty water back in the pond .
It 's probably what he caught something from .
And he was breaking himself down , humping over that thing .
It 's your fault , for getting it for him .
Are you coming ? "
She glared coldly at him , turning back to the stairway .
" I 'm coming , " he said heavily , and followed her upstairs .
Harry lay back in his bed , a low mound under the covers .
His head was propped against a single pillow , and his eyes were half - closed , the lids swollen - looking , his face hotly flushed .
He was breathing slowly as if asleep .
But as his father entered the room , he opened his eyes as if with an effort , fixed them on him , said , " Dad ...
I 've got to tell you . "
Mr. Chatham took the chair by the bedside , quietly , leaving his wife to stand .
He asked , " About what , Harry ? "
" About - things . "
The boy 's eyes shifted to his mother , at the foot of his bed .
" I do n't want to talk to her .
She thinks it 's just fever .
But you 'll understand . "
Henry Chatham lifted his gaze to meet his wife 's .
" Maybe you 'd better go downstairs and wait for the doctor , Sally . "
She looked hard at him , then turned abruptly to go out .
" All right , " she said in a thin voice , and closed the door softly behind her .
" Now what did you want to tell me , Harry ? "
" About them ... the rotifers , " the boy said .
His eyes had drifted half - shut again but his voice was clear .
" They did it to me ... on purpose . "
" Did what ? "
" I do n't know ....
They used one of their cultures .
They 've got all kinds : beds of germs , under the leaves in the water .
They 've been growing new kinds , that will be worse than anything that ever was before ....
They live so fast , they work so fast . "
Henry Chatham was silent , leaning forward beside the bed .
" It was only a little while , before I found out they knew about me .
I could see them through my microscope , but they could see me too .... And they kept signaling , swimming and turning ....
I wo n't tell you how to talk to them , because nobody ought to talk to them ever again .
Because they find out more than they tell ....
They know about us , now , and they hate us .
They never knew before - that there was anybody but them ....
So they want to kill us all . "
" But why should they want to do that ? "
asked the father , as gently as he could .
He kept telling himself , " He 's delirious .
It 's like Sally says , he 's been wearing himself out , thinking too much about - the rotifers .
But the doctor will be here pretty soon , the doctor will know what to do . "
" They do n't like knowing that they are n't the only ones on Earth that can think .
I expect people would be the same way . "
" But they 're such little things , Harry .
They ca n't hurt us at all . "
The boy 's eyes opened wide , shadowed with terror and fever .
" I told you , Dad - They 're growing germs , millions and billions of them , new ones .... And they kept telling me to take them back to the pond , so they could tell all the rest , and they could all start getting ready - for war . "
He remembered the shapes that swam and crept in the green water gardens , with whirling cilia and great , cold , glistening eyes .
And he remembered the clean , empty fish bowl in the window downstairs .
" Do n't let them , Dad , " said Harry convulsively .
" You 've got to kill them all .
The ones here and the ones in the pond .
You 've got to kill them good - because they do n't mind being killed , and they lay lots of eggs , and their eggs can stand almost anything , even drying up .
And the eggs remember what the old ones knew . "
" Do n't worry , " said Henry Chatham quickly .
He grasped his son 's hand , a hot limp hand that had slipped from under the coverlet .
" We 'll stop them .
We 'll drain the pond . "
" That 's swell , " whispered the boy , his energy fading again .
" I ought to have told you before , Dad - but first I was afraid you 'd laugh , and then - I was just ... afraid .... " His voice drifted away .
And his father , looking down at the flushed face , saw that he seemed asleep .
Well , that was better than the sick delirium - saying such strange , wild things - Downstairs the doctor was saying harshly , " All right .
All right .
But let 's have a look at the patient . "
Henry Chatham came quietly downstairs ; he greeted the doctor briefly , and did not follow him to Harry 's bedroom .
When he was left alone in the room , he went to the window and stood looking down at the microscope .
He could not rid his head of strangeness : A window between two worlds , our world and that of the infinitely small , a window that looks both ways .
After a time , he went through the kitchen and let himself out the back door , into the noonday sunlight .
He followed the garden path , between the weed - grown beds of vegetables , until he came to the edge of the little pond .
It lay there quiet in the sunlight , green - scummed and walled with stiff rank grass , a lone dragonfly swooping and wheeling above it .
The image of all the stagnant waters , the fertile breeding - places of strange life , with which it was joined in the end by the tortuous hidden channels , the oozing pores of the Earth .
And it seemed to him then that he glimpsed something , a hitherto unseen miasma , rising above the pool and darkening the sunlight ever so little .
A dream , a shadow - the shadow of the alien dream of things hidden in smallness , the dark dream of the rotifers .
The dragonfly , having seized a bright - winged fly that was sporting over the pond , descended heavily through the sunlit air and came to rest on a broad lily pad .
Henry Chatham was suddenly afraid .
He turned and walked slowly , wearily , up the path toward the house .
Few things have been more beautiful than my note book on the Deist Controversy as it fell downward through the waters of the Mediterranean .
It dived , like a piece of black slate , but opened soon , disclosing leaves of pale green , which quivered into blue .
Now it had vanished , now it was a piece of magical india rubber stretching out to infinity , now it was a book again , but bigger than the book of all knowledge .
It grew more fantastic as it reached the bottom , where a puff of sand welcomed it and obscured it from view .
But it reappeared , quite sane though a little tremulous , lying decently open on its back , while unseen fingers fidgeted among its leaves .
" It is such a pity " said my aunt , " that you will not finish your work in the Hotel .
Then you would be free to enjoy yourself and this would never have happened . "
" Nothing of it but will change into something rich and strange , " warbled the chaplain , while his sister said " Why it 's gone into the water . "
As for the boatmen , one of them laughed , while the other , without a word of warning , stood up and began to take his clothes off .
" Holy Moses ! "
cried the Colonel .
" Is the fellow mad ? "
" Yes , thank him dear , " said my aunt : " that is to say tell him he is very kind , but perhaps another time . "
" All the same I do want my book back , " I complained .
" It 's for my Fellowship Dissertation .
There wo n't be much left of it by another time . "
" I have an idea , " said some woman or other through her parasol .
" Let us leave this child of nature to dive for the book while we go on to the other grotto .
We can land him either on this rock or on the ledge inside , and he will be ready when we return . "
The idea seemed good ; and I improved it by saying I would be left behind too , to lighten the boat .
So the two of us were deposited outside the little grotto on a great sunlit rock that guarded the harmonies within .
Let us call them blue , though they suggest rather the spirit of what is clean , cleanliness passed from the domestic to the sublime , the cleanliness of all the sea gathered together and radiating light .
The Blue Grotto at Capri contains only more blue water , not bluer water .
That colour and that spirit is the heritage of every cave in the Mediterranean into which the sun can shine and the sea flow .
As soon as the boat left I realised how imprudent I had been to trust myself on a sloping rock with an unknown Sicilian .
With a jerk he became alive , seizing my arm and saying " Go to the end of the Grotto and I will show you something beautiful . "
He made me jump off the rock on to the ledge over a dazzling crack of sea , he drew me away from the light till I was standing on the tiny beach of sand which emerged like powdered turquoise at the further end .
There he left me with his clothes , and returned swiftly to the summit of the entrance - rock .
For a moment he stood naked in the brilliant sun , looking down at the spot where the book lay .
Then he crossed himself , raised his hands above his head , and dived .
If the book was wonderful , the man is past all description .
His effect was that of a silver statue , alive beneath the sea , through whom life throbbed in blue and green .
Something infinitely happy , infinitely wise - but it was impossible that it should emerge from the depths sunburnt and dripping , holding the note book on the Deist Controversy between its teeth .
A gratuity is generally expected by those who bathe .
Whatever I offered , he was sure to want more , and I was disinclined for an argument in a place so beautiful and also so solitary .
It was a relief that he should say in conversational tones " In a place like this one might see the Siren . "
I was delighted with him for thus falling into the key of his surroundings .
We had been left together in a magic world , apart from all the commonplaces that are called reality , a world of blue whose floor was the sea and whose walls and roof of rock trembled with the sea 's reflections .
Here , only the fantastic would be tolerable , and it was in that spirit that I echoed his words .
" One might easily see the Siren . "
He watched me curiously while he dressed .
I was parting the sticky leaves of the note book as I sat on the strip of sand .
" Ah ! "
he said at last .
" You may have read the little book that was printed last year .
Who would have thought that our Siren would have given the foreigners pleasure ! "
( I read it afterwards .
Its account is , not unnaturally , incomplete , in spite of there being a woodcut of the young person , and the words of her song . )
" She comes out of this blue water , does n't she , " I suggested " and sits on the rock at the entrance , combing her hair . "
I wanted to draw him out , for I was interested in his sudden gravity , and there was a suggestion of irony in his last remark that puzzled me .
" Have you ever seen her ? "
" Often and often . "
" I never . "
" But you have heard her sing ! "
He put on his coat and said impatiently , " How can she sing under the water ?
Who could ?
She sometimes tries , but nothing comes from her but great bubbles . "
" She should climb on to the rock then . "
" How can she ? "
he cried again , quite angry .
" The priests have blessed the air , so she can not breathe it , and blessed the rocks , so that she can not sit on them .
But the sea no man can bless , because it is too big , and always changing .
Therefore she lives in the sea . "
I was silent .
At this his face took a gentler expression .
He looked at me as though something was on his mind , and going out to the entrance rock , gazed at the external blue .
Then returning into our twilight he said " As a rule only good people see the Siren . "
I made no comment .
There was a pause , and he continued .
" That is a very strange thing , and the priests do not know how to account for it ; for she of course is wicked .
Not only those who fast and go to mass are in danger , but even those who are merely good in daily life .
No one in the village had seen her for two generations .
I am not surprised .
We all cross ourselves before we enter the water , but it is unnecessary .
Giuseppe , we thought , was safer than most .
We loved him , and many of us he loved : but that is a different thing to being good . "
I asked who Giuseppe was .
" That day - I was seventeen and my brother was twenty and a great deal stronger than I was and it was the year when the visitors , who have brought such prosperity and so many alterations into the village , first began to come .
One English lady in particular , of very high birth , came , and has written a book about the place , and it was through her that the Improvement Syndicate was formed , which is about to connect the hotels with the station by means of a Funicular railway . "
" Do n't tell me about that lady in here , " I observed .
" That day we took her and her friends to see the grottoes .
As we rowed close under the cliffs I put out my hand , as one does , and caught a little crab , and having pulled off its claws offered it as a curiosity .
The ladies groaned , but a gentleman was pleased , and held out money .
Being inexperienced , I refused it , saying that his pleasure was sufficient reward !
Giuseppe , who was rowing behind , was very angry with me and reached out with his hand and hit me on the side of the mouth , so that a tooth cut my lip , and I bled .
I tried to hit him back , but he always was too quick for me , and as I stretched round he kicked me under the arm pit , so that for a moment I could not even row .
There was a great noise among the ladies , and I heard afterwards that they were planning to take me away from my brother and train me as a waiter .
That at all events never came to pass .
" When we reached the grotto - not here , but a larger one - the gentleman was very anxious that one of us should dive for money , and the ladies consented , as they sometimes do .
Giuseppe who had discovered how much pleasure it gives foreigners to see us in the water , refused to dive for anything but silver , and the gentleman threw in a two lira piece .
" Just before my brother sprang off he caught sight of me holding my bruise , and crying , for I could not help it .
He laughed and said ' this time , at all events , I shall not see the Siren ! '
and went into the blue water without crossing himself .
But he saw her . "
He broke off , and accepted a cigarette .
I watched the golden entrance rock and the quivering walls , and the magic water through which great bubbles constantly rose .
At last he dropped his hot ash into the ripples and turned his head away , and said : " He came up without the coin .
We pulled him into the boat , and he was so large that he seemed to fill it , and so wet that we could not dress him .
I have never seen a man so wet .
I and the gentleman rowed back , and we covered Giuseppe with sacking and propped him up in the stern . "
" He was drowned , then ? "
I murmured , supposing that to be the point .
" He was not " he cried angrily .
" He saw the Siren .
I told you . "
I was silenced again .
" We put him to bed , though he was not ill .
The doctor came , and took money , and the priest came and took more and smothered him with incense and spattered him with holy water .
But it was no good .
He was too big - like a piece of the sea .
He kissed the thumb - bones of San Biagio and they never dried till evening . "
" What did he look like ? "
I ventured .
" Like anyone who has seen the Siren .
If you have seen her ' often and often ' how is it you do not know ?
Unhappy , unhappy , unhappy because he knew everything .
Every living thing made him unhappy because he knew it would die .
And all he cared to do was to sleep . "
I bent over my note book .
" He did no work , he forgot to eat , he forgot whether he had his clothes on .
All the work fell on me , and my sister had to go out to service .
We tried to make him into a beggar , but he was too robust to inspire pity , and as for an idiot , he had not the right look in his eyes .
He would stand in the street looking at people , and the more he looked at them the more unhappy he became .
When a child was born he would cover his face with his hands .
If anyone was married - he was terrible then , and would frighten them as they came out of church .
Who would have believed he would marry himself !
I caused that , I. I was reading out of the paper how a girl at Ragusa had ' gone mad through bathing in the sea . '
Giuseppe got up , and in a week he and that girl came in together .
" He never told me anything , but it seems that he went straight to her house , broke into her room , and carried her off .
She was the daughter of a rich mine - owner , so you may imagine our peril .
Her father came down , with a clever lawyer , but they could do no more than I.
They argued and they threatened , but at last they had to go back and we lost nothing - that is to say , no money .
We took Giuseppe and Maria to the Church and had them married .
Ugh !
that wedding !
The priest made no jokes afterwards and coming out the children threw stones ....
I think I would have died to make her happy ; but as always happens , one could do nothing . "
" Were they unhappy together then ? "
" They loved each other , but love is not happiness .
We can all get love .
Love is nothing .
Love is everywhere since the death of Jesus Christ .
I had two people to work for now , for she was like him in everything - one never knew which of them was speaking .
I had to sell our own boat and work under the bad old man you have to - day .
Worst of all , people began to hate us .
The children first - everything begins with them - and then the women and last of all the men .
For the cause of every misfortune was - you will not betray me ? "
I promised good faith , and immediately he burst into the frantic blasphemy of one who has escaped from supervision , cursing the priests , the lying filthy cheating immoral priests who had ruined his life , who had murdered his brother and the girl , whom he dared not murder back because they held the key of heaven and could ruin him in the next life too .
" Thus are we tricked ! "
was his cry and he stood up and kicked at the azure ripples with his feet , till he had obscured them with a cloud of sand .
I too was moved .
The story of Giuseppe , for all its absurdity and superstition , came nearer to reality than anything I had known before .
I do n't know why , but it filled me with desire to help others - the greatest of all our desires I suppose , and the most fruitless .
The desire soon passed .
" She was about to have a child .
That was the end of everything .
People said to me ' When will your charming nephew be born ?
What a cheerful attractive child he will be , with such a father and mother ! '
I kept my face steady and replied ' I think he may be .
Out of sadness shall come gladness ' - it is one of our proverbs .
And my answer frightened them very much , and they told the priests , who were frightened too .
Then the whisper started that the child would be Anti - Christ : you need not be afraid : he was never born .
" An old witch began to prophesy , and no one stopped her .
Giuseppe and the girl , she said , had silent devils , who could do little harm .
But the child would always be speaking and laughing and perverting , and last of all he would go into the sea and fetch up the Siren into the air and all the world would see her and hear her sing .
As soon as she sang , the Seven Vials would be opened and the Pope would die and Mongibello flame , and the veil of Santa Agata would be burnt .
Then the boy and the Siren would marry , and together they would rule the world , for ever and ever .
" The whole village was in tumult , and the hotel keepers became alarmed , for the tourist season was just beginning .
They met together and decided that Giuseppe and the girl must be sent inland until the child was born , and they subscribed the money .
The night before they were to start there was a full moon and wind from the east , and all along the coast the sea shot up over the cliffs in silver clouds .
It is a wonderful sight , and Maria said she must see it once more .
" ' Do not go , ' I said .
' I saw the priest go by , and someone with him .
And the hotel keepers do not like you to be seen , and if we displease them also we shall starve . '
" ' I want to go , ' she replied .
' The sea is stormy , and I may never feel it again . '
" ' No , he is right ' said Giuseppe .
' Do not go - or let one of us go with you . '
" ' I want to go alone , ' she said ; and she went alone .
" I tied up their luggage in a piece of cloth , and then I was so unhappy at thinking I should lose them that I went and sat down by my brother and put my arm round his neck , and he put his arm round me , which he had not done for more than a year , and we remained thus I do n't remember how long .
" Suddenly the door flew open and moon - light and wind came in together , and a child 's voice said laughing ' They have pushed her over the cliffs into the sea . '
" I stepped to the drawer where I keep my knives , and the child ran away .
" ' Sit down again ' said Giuseppe - Giuseppe of all people !
' If she is dead , why should others die too ? '
' I guess who it is , ' I cried , ' and I will kill him . '
" I was almost out of the door but he tripped me up and kneeling upon me took hold of both my hands and sprained my wrists ; first my right one , then my left .
No one but Giuseppe would have thought of such a thing .
It hurt more than you would suppose , and I fainted .
When I woke up , he was gone , and I have never seen him again . "
But Giuseppe disgusted me .
" I told you he was wicked , " he said .
" No one would have expected him to see the Siren . "
" How do you know he did see her then ? "
" Because he did not see her ' often and often ' but once . "
" Why do you love him if he is wicked ? "
He laughed for the first time .
That was his only reply .
" Is that the end ? "
I asked , feeling curiously ashamed .
" I never killed her murderer , for by the time my wrists were well , he was in America ; and one can not kill a priest .
As for Giuseppe , he went all over the world too , looking for someone else who has seen the Siren - either a man , or , better still , a woman , for then the child might still have been born .
At last he came to Liverpool , - is the district probable ?
- and there he began to cough , and spat blood until he died .
" I do not suppose there is anyone living now who has seen her .
There has seldom been more than one in a generation , and never in my life will there be both a man and a woman from whom that child can be born , who will fetch up the Siren from the sea , and destroy silence , and save the world ! "
" Save the world ? "
I cried .
" Did the prophecy end like that ? "
He leant back against the rock , breathing deep .
Through all the blue - green reflections I saw him colour .
I heard him say : " Silence and loneliness can not last for ever .
It may be a hundred or a thousand years , but the sea lasts longer , and she shall come out of it and sing . "
I would have asked him more , but at that moment the whole cave darkened , and there rode in through its narrow entrance the returning boat .
THE HOGARTH PRESS Telephone Hogarth House Richmond 496 Paradise Road Richmond Surrey LIST OF PUBLICATIONS NEW PUBLICATIONS Reminiscences of Leo Nicolayevitch Tolstoi .
By MAXIM GORKY .
Authorized translation from the Russian by S. S. Koteliansky and Leonard Woolf .
5s .
net .
The Story of the Siren .
By E. M. FORSTER .
2s .
6d .
net .
PREVIOUS PUBLICATIONS Stories from the Old Testament .
Retold by LOGAN PEARSALL SMITH , author of Trivia .
4s .
6d .
net .
Paris , a Poem .
By HOPE MIRRLEES , author of Madeleine .
3s .
net .
VIRGINIA WOOLF The Mark on the Wall .
Second edition .
1s .
6d .
net .
Kew Gardens .
With woodcuts by VANESSA BELL .
Second edition .
2s .
net .
KATHERINE MANSFIELD Prelude .
3s .
6d .
net .
T. S. ELIOT Poems .
2s .
6d .
net .
J. MIDDLETON MURRY .
The Critic in Judgment .
2s .
6d .
net .
LEONARD & VIRGINIA WOOLF .
Two Stories .
Out of print .
It was clear that the sleigh from Weymore had not come ; and the shivering young traveller from Boston , who had counted on jumping into it when he left the train at Northridge Junction , found himself standing alone on the open platform , exposed to the full assault of night - fall and winter .
The blast that swept him came off New Hampshire snow - fields and ice - hung forests .
It seemed to have traversed interminable leagues of frozen silence , filling them with the same cold roar and sharpening its edge against the same bitter black - and - white landscape .
Dark , searching and sword - like , it alternately muffled and harried its victim , like a bull - fighter now whirling his cloak and now planting his darts .
This analogy brought home to the young man the fact that he himself had no cloak , and that the overcoat in which he had faced the relatively temperate air of Boston seemed no thicker than a sheet of paper on the bleak heights of Northridge .
George Faxon said to himself that the place was uncommonly well - named .
It clung to an exposed ledge over the valley from which the train had lifted him , and the wind combed it with teeth of steel that he seemed actually to hear scraping against the wooden sides of the station .
Other building there was none : the village lay far down the road , and thither - since the Weymore sleigh had not come - Faxon saw himself under the necessity of plodding through several feet of snow .
He understood well enough what had happened : his hostess had forgotten that he was coming .
Young as Faxon was , this sad lucidity of soul had been acquired as the result of long experience , and he knew that the visitors who can least afford to hire a carriage are almost always those whom their hosts forget to send for .
Yet to say that Mrs. Culme had forgotten him was too crude a way of putting it Similar incidents led him to think that she had probably told her maid to tell the butler to telephone the coachman to tell one of the grooms ( if no one else needed him ) to drive over to Northridge to fetch the new secretary ; but on a night like this , what groom who respected his rights would fail to forget the order ?
Faxon 's obvious course was to struggle through the drifts to the village , and there rout out a sleigh to convey him to Weymore ; but what if , on his arrival at Mrs. Culme 's , no one remembered to ask him what this devotion to duty had cost ?
That , again , was one of the contingencies he had expensively learned to look out for , and the perspicacity so acquired told him it would be cheaper to spend the night at the Northridge inn , and advise Mrs. Culme of his presence there by telephone .
He had reached this decision , and was about to entrust his luggage to a vague man with a lantern , when his hopes were raised by the sound of bells .
Two sleighs were just dashing up to the station , and from the foremost there sprang a young man muffled in furs .
" Weymore ?
- No , these are not the Weymore sleighs . "
The voice was that of the youth who had jumped to the platform - a voice so agreeable that , in spite of the words , it fell consolingly on Faxon 's ears .
At the same moment the wandering station - lantern , casting a transient light on the speaker , showed his features to be in the pleasantest harmony with his voice .
He was very fair and very young - hardly in the twenties , Faxon thought - but his face , though full of a morning freshness , was a trifle too thin and fine - drawn , as though a vivid spirit contended in him with a strain of physical weakness .
Faxon was perhaps the quicker to notice such delicacies of balance because his own temperament hung on lightly quivering nerves , which yet , as he believed , would never quite swing him beyond a normal sensibility .
" You expected a sleigh from Weymore ? "
the newcomer continued , standing beside Faxon like a slender column of fur .
Mrs. Culme 's secretary explained his difficulty , and the other brushed it aside with a contemptuous " Oh , Mrs. Culme ! "
that carried both speakers a long way toward reciprocal understanding .
" But then you must be - " The youth broke off with a smile of interrogation .
" The new secretary ?
Yes .
But apparently there are no notes to be answered this evening . "
Faxon 's laugh deepened the sense of solidarity which had so promptly established itself between the two .
His friend laughed also .
" Mrs. Culme , " he explained , " was lunching at my uncle 's to - day , and she said you were due this evening .
But seven hours is a long time for Mrs. Culme to remember anything . "
" Well , " said Faxon philosophically , " I suppose that 's one of the reasons why she needs a secretary .
And I 've always the inn at Northridge , " he concluded .
" Oh , but you have n't , though !
It burned down last week . "
" The deuce it did ! "
said Faxon ; but the humour of the situation struck him before its inconvenience .
His life , for years past , had been mainly a succession of resigned adaptations , and he had learned , before dealing practically with his embarrassments , to extract from most of them a small tribute of amusement .
" Oh , well , there 's sure to be somebody in the place who can put me up . "
" No one you could put up with .
Besides , Northridge is three miles off , and our place - in the opposite direction - is a little nearer . "
Through the darkness , Faxon saw his friend sketch a gesture of self - introduction .
" My name 's Frank Rainer , and I 'm staying with my uncle at Overdale .
I 've driven over to meet two friends of his , who are due in a few minutes from New York .
If you do n't mind waiting till they arrive I 'm sure Overdale can do you better than Northridge .
We 're only down from town for a few days , but the house is always ready for a lot of people . "
" But your uncle - ? "
Faxon could only object , with the odd sense , through his embarrassment , that it would be magically dispelled by his invisible friend 's next words .
" Oh , my uncle - you 'll see !
I answer for him !
I daresay you 've heard of him - John Lavington ? "
John Lavington !
There was a certain irony in asking if one had heard of John Lavington !
Even from a post of observation as obscure as that of Mrs. Culme 's secretary the rumour of John Lavington 's money , of his pictures , his politics , his charities and his hospitality , was as difficult to escape as the roar of a cataract in a mountain solitude .
It might almost have been said that the one place in which one would not have expected to come upon him was in just such a solitude as now surrounded the speakers - at least in this deepest hour of its desertedness .
But it was just like Lavington 's brilliant ubiquity to put one in the wrong even there .
" Oh , yes , I 've heard of your uncle . "
" Then you will come , wo n't you ?
We 've only five minutes to wait . "
young Rainer urged , in the tone that dispels scruples by ignoring them ; and Faxon found himself accepting the invitation as simply as it was offered .
A delay in the arrival of the New York train lengthened their five minutes to fifteen ; and as they paced the icy platform Faxon began to see why it had seemed the most natural thing in the world to accede to his new acquaintance 's suggestion .
It was because Frank Rainer was one of the privileged beings who simplify human intercourse by the atmosphere of confidence and good humour they diffuse .
He produced this effect , Faxon noted , by the exercise of no gift but his youth , and of no art but his sincerity ; and these qualities were revealed in a smile of such sweetness that Faxon felt , as never before , what Nature can achieve when she deigns to match the face with the mind .
He learned that the young man was the ward , and the only nephew , of John Lavington , with whom he had made his home since the death of his mother , the great man 's sister .
Mr. Lavington , Rainer said , had been " a regular brick " to him - " But then he is to every one , you know " - and the young fellow 's situation seemed in fact to be perfectly in keeping with his person .
Apparently the only shade that had ever rested on him was cast by the physical weakness which Faxon had already detected .
Young Rainer had been threatened with tuberculosis , and the disease was so far advanced that , according to the highest authorities , banishment to Arizona or New Mexico was inevitable .
" But luckily my uncle did n't pack me off , as most people would have done , without getting another opinion .
Whose ?
Oh , an awfully clever chap , a young doctor with a lot of new ideas , who simply laughed at my being sent away , and said I 'd do perfectly well in New York if I did n't dine out too much , and if I dashed off occasionally to Northridge for a little fresh air .
So it 's really my uncle 's doing that I 'm not in exile - and I feel no end better since the new chap told me I need n't bother . "
Young Rainer went on to confess that he was extremely fond of dining out , dancing and similar distractions ; and Faxon , listening to him , was inclined to think that the physician who had refused to cut him off altogether from these pleasures was probably a better psychologist than his seniors .
" All the same you ought to be careful , you know . "
The sense of elder - brotherly concern that forced the words from Faxon made him , as he spoke , slip his arm through Frank Rainer ' s.
The latter met the movement with a responsive pressure .
" Oh , I am : awfully , awfully .
And then my uncle has such an eye on me ! "
" But if your uncle has such an eye on you , what does he say to your swallowing knives out here in this Siberian wild ? "
Rainer raised his fur collar with a careless gesture .
" It 's not that that does it - the cold 's good for me . "
" And it 's not the dinners and dances ?
What is it , then ? "
Faxon good - humouredly insisted ; to which his companion answered with a laugh : " Well , my uncle says it 's being bored ; and I rather think he 's right ! "
His laugh ended in a spasm of coughing and a struggle for breath that made Faxon , still holding his arm , guide him hastily into the shelter of the fireless waiting - room .
Young Rainer had dropped down on the bench against the wall and pulled off one of his fur gloves to grope for a handkerchief .
He tossed aside his cap and drew the handkerchief across his forehead , which was intensely white , and beaded with moisture , though his face retained a healthy glow .
But Faxon 's gaze remained fastened to the hand he had uncovered : it was so long , so colourless , so wasted , so much older than the brow he passed it over .
" It 's queer - a healthy face but dying hands , " the secretary mused : he somehow wished young Rainer had kept on his glove .
The whistle of the express drew the young men to their feet , and the next moment two heavily - furred gentlemen had descended to the platform and were breasting the rigour of the night .
Frank Rainer introduced them as Mr. Grisben and Mr. Balch , and Faxon , while their luggage was being lifted into the second sleigh , discerned them , by the roving lantern - gleam , to be an elderly greyheaded pair , of the average prosperous business cut .
They saluted their host 's nephew with friendly familiarity , and Mr. Grisben , who seemed the spokesman of the two , ended his greeting with a genial - " and many many more of them , dear boy ! "
which suggested to Faxon that their arrival coincided with an anniversary .
But he could not press the enquiry , for the seat allotted him was at the coachman 's side , while Frank Rainer joined his uncle 's guests inside the sleigh .
A swift flight ( behind such horses as one could be sure of John Lavington 's having ) brought them to tall gateposts , an illuminated lodge , and an avenue on which the snow had been levelled to the smoothness of marble .
At the end of the avenue the long house loomed up , its principal bulk dark , but one wing sending out a ray of welcome ; and the next moment Faxon was receiving a violent impression of warmth and light , of hot - house plants , hurrying servants , a vast spectacular oak hall like a stage - setting , and , in its unreal middle distance , a small figure , correctly dressed , conventionally featured , and utterly unlike his rather florid conception of the great John Lavington .
The surprise of the contrast remained with him through his hurried dressing in the large luxurious bedroom to which he had been shown .
" I do n't see where he comes in , " was the only way he could put it , so difficult was it to fit the exuberance of Lavington 's public personality into his host 's contracted frame and manner .
Mr. Laving ton , to whom Faxon 's case had been rapidly explained by young Rainer , had welcomed him with a sort of dry and stilted cordiality that exactly matched his narrow face , his stiff hand , and the whiff of scent on his evening handkerchief .
" Make yourself at home - at home ! "
he had repeated , in a tone that suggested , on his own part , a complete inability to perform the feat he urged on his visitor .
" Any friend of Frank 's ... delighted ... make yourself thoroughly at home ! "
II In spite of the balmy temperature and complicated conveniences of Faxon 's bedroom , the injunction was not easy to obey .
It was wonderful luck to have found a night 's shelter under the opulent roof of Overdale , and he tasted the physical satisfaction to the full .
But the place , for all its ingenuities of comfort , was oddly cold and unwelcoming .
He could n't have said why , and could only suppose that Mr. Lavington 's intense personality - intensely negative , but intense all the same - must , in some occult way , have penetrated every corner of his dwelling .
Perhaps , though , it was merely that Faxon himself was tired and hungry , more deeply chilled than he had known till he came in from the cold , and unutterably sick of all strange houses , and of the prospect of perpetually treading other people 's stairs .
" I hope you 're not famished ? "
Rainer 's slim figure was in the doorway .
" My uncle has a little business to attend to with Mr. Grisben , and we do n't dine for half an hour .
Shall I fetch you , or can you find your way down ?
Come straight to the dining - room - the second door on the left of the long gallery . "
He disappeared , leaving a ray of warmth behind him , and Faxon , relieved , lit a cigarette and sat down by the fire .
Looking about with less haste , he was struck by a detail that had escaped him .
The room was full of flowers - a mere " bachelor 's room , " in the wing of a house opened only for a few days , in the dead middle of a New Hampshire winter !
Flowers were everywhere , not in senseless profusion , but placed with the same conscious art that he had remarked in the grouping of the blossoming shrubs in the hall .
A vase of arums stood on the writing - table , a cluster of strange - hued carnations on the stand at his elbow , and from bowls of glass and porcelain clumps of freesia - bulbs diffused their melting fragrance .
The fact implied acres of glass - but that was the least interesting part of it .
The flowers themselves , their quality , selection and arrangement , attested on some one 's part - and on whose but John Lavington 's ?
- a solicitous and sensitive passion for that particular form of beauty .
Well , it simply made the man , as he had appeared to Faxon , all the harder to understand !
The half - hour elapsed , and Faxon , rejoicing at the prospect of food , set out to make his way to the dining - room .
He had not noticed the direction he had followed in going to his room , and was puzzled , when he left it , to find that two staircases , of apparently equal importance , invited him .
He chose the one to his right , and reached , at its foot , a long gallery such as Rainer had described .
The gallery was empty , the doors down its length were closed ; but Rainer had said : " The second to the left , " and Faxon , after pausing for some chance enlightenment which did not come , laid his hand on the second knob to the left .
The room he entered was square , with dusky picture - hung walls .
In its centre , about a table lit by veiled lamps , he fancied Mr. Lavington and his guests to be already seated at dinner ; then he perceived that the table was covered not with viands but with papers , and that he had blundered into what seemed to be his host 's study .
As he paused Frank Rainer looked up .
" Oh , here 's Mr. Faxon .
Why not ask him - ? "
Mr. Lavington , from the end of the table , reflected his nephew 's smile in a glance of impartial benevolence .
" Certainly .
Come in , Mr. Faxon .
If you wo n't think it a liberty - " Mr. Grisben , who sat opposite his host , turned his head toward the door .
" Of course Mr. Faxon 's an American citizen ? "
Frank Rainer laughed .
" That 's all right ! ...
Oh , no , not one of your pin - pointed pens , Uncle Jack !
Have n't you got a quill somewhere ? "
Mr. Balch , who spoke slowly and as if reluctantly , in a muffled voice of which there seemed to be very little left , raised his hand to say : " One moment : you acknowledge this to be - ? "
" My last will and testament ? "
Rainer 's laugh redoubled .
" Well , I wo n't answer for the ' last . '
It 's the first , anyway . "
" It 's a mere formula , " Mr. Balch explained .
" Well , here goes . "
Rainer dipped his quill in the inkstand his uncle had pushed in his direction , and dashed a gallant signature across the document .
Faxon , understanding what was expected of him , and conjecturing that the young man was signing his will on the attainment of his majority , had placed himself behind Mr. Grisben , and stood awaiting his turn to affix his name to the instrument .
Rainer , having signed , was about to push the paper across the table to Mr. Balch ; but the latter , again raising his hand , said in his sad imprisoned voice : " The seal - ? "
" Oh , does there have to be a seal ? "
Faxon , looking over Mr. Grisben at John Lavington , saw a faint frown between his impassive eyes .
" Really , Frank ! "
He seemed , Faxon thought , slightly irritated by his nephew 's frivolity .
" Who 's got a seal ? "
Frank Rainer continued , glancing about the table .
" There does n't seem to be one here . "
Mr. Grisben interposed .
" A wafer will do .
Lavington , you have a wafer ? "
Mr. Lavington had recovered his serenity .
" There must be some in one of the drawers .
But I 'm ashamed to say I do n't know where my secretary keeps these things .
He ought to have seen to it that a wafer was sent with the document . "
" Oh , hang it - " Frank Rainer pushed the paper aside : " It 's the hand of God - and I 'm as hungry as a wolf .
Let 's dine first , Uncle Jack . "
" I think I 've a seal upstairs , " said Faxon .
Mr. Lavington sent him a barely perceptible smile .
" So sorry to give you the trouble - " " Oh , I say , do n't send him after it now .
Let 's wait till after dinner ! "
Mr. Lavington continued to smile on his guest , and the latter , as if under the faint coercion of the smile , turned from the room and ran upstairs .
Having taken the seal from his writing - case he came down again , and once more opened the door of the study .
No one was speaking when he entered - they were evidently awaiting his return with the mute impatience of hunger , and he put the seal in Rainer 's reach , and stood watching while Mr. Grisben struck a match and held it to one of the candles flanking the inkstand .
As the wax descended on the paper Faxon remarked again the strange emaciation , the premature physical weariness , of the hand that held it : he wondered if Mr. Lavington had ever noticed his nephew 's hand , and if it were not poignantly visible to him now .
With this thought in his mind , Faxon raised his eyes to look at Mr. Lavington .
The great man 's gaze rested on Frank Rainer with an expression of untroubled benevolence ; and at the same instant Faxon 's attention was attracted by the presence in the room of another person , who must have joined the group while he was upstairs searching for the seal .
The new - comer was a man of about Mr. Lavington 's age and figure , who stood just behind his chair , and who , at the moment when Faxon first saw him , was gazing at young Rainer with an equal intensity of attention .
The likeness between the two men - perhaps increased by the fact that the hooded lamps on the table left the figure behind the chair in shadow - struck Faxon the more because of the contrast in their expression .
John Lavington , during his nephew 's clumsy attempt to drop the wax and apply the seal , continued to fasten on him a look of half - amused affection ; while the man behind the chair , so oddly reduplicating the lines of his features and figure , turned on the boy a face of pale hostility .
The impression was so startling that Faxon forgot what was going on about him .
He was just dimly aware of young Rainer 's exclaiming ; " Your turn , Mr.
Grisben ! "
of Mr. Grisben 's protesting : " No - no ; Mr. Faxon first , " and of the pen 's being thereupon transferred to his own hand .
He received it with a deadly sense of being unable to move , or even to understand what was expected of him , till he became conscious of Mr. Grisben 's paternally pointing out the precise spot on which he was to leave his autograph .
The effort to fix his attention and steady his hand prolonged the process of signing , and when he stood up - a strange weight of fatigue on all his limbs - the figure behind Mr. Lavington 's chair was gone .
Faxon felt an immediate sense of relief .
It was puzzling that the man 's exit should have been so rapid and noiseless , but the door behind Mr. Lavington was screened by a tapestry hanging , and Faxon concluded that the unknown looker - on had merely had to raise it to pass out .
At any rate he was gone , and with his withdrawal the strange weight was lifted .
Young Rainer was lighting a cigarette , Mr. Balch inscribing his name at the foot of the document , Mr. Lavington - his eyes no longer on his nephew - examining a strange white - winged orchid in the vase at his elbow .
Every thing suddenly seemed to have grown natural and simple again , and Faxon found himself responding with a smile to the affable gesture with which his host declared : " And now , Mr. Faxon , we 'll dine . "
III " I wonder how I blundered into the wrong room just now ; I thought you told me to take the second door to the left , " Faxon said to Frank Rainer as they followed the older men down the gallery .
" So I did ; but I probably forgot to tell you which staircase to take .
Coming from your bedroom , I ought to have said the fourth door to the right .
It 's a puzzling house , because my uncle keeps adding to it from year to year .
He built this room last summer for his modern pictures . "
Young Rainer , pausing to open another door , touched an electric button which sent a circle of light about the walls of a long room hung with canvases of the French impressionist school .
Faxon advanced , attracted by a shimmering Monet , but Rainer laid a hand on his arm .
" He bought that last week .
But come along - I 'll show you all this after dinner .
Or he will , rather - he loves it . "
" Does he really love things ? "
Rainer stared , clearly perplexed at the question .
" Rather !
Flowers and pictures especially !
Have n't you noticed the flowers ?
I suppose you think his manner 's cold ; it seems so at first ; but he 's really awfully keen about things . "
Faxon looked quickly at the speaker .
" Has your uncle a brother ? "
" Brother ?
No - never had .
He and my mother were the only ones . "
" Or any relation who - who looks like him ?
Who might be mistaken for him ? "
" Not that I ever heard of .
Does he remind you of some one ? "
" Yes . "
" That 's queer .
We 'll ask him if he 's got a double .
Come on ! "
But another picture had arrested Faxon , and some minutes elapsed before he and his young host reached the dining - room .
It was a large room , with the same conventionally handsome furniture and delicately grouped flowers ; and Faxon 's first glance showed him that only three men were seated about the dining - table .
The man who had stood behind Mr. Lavington 's chair was not present , and no seat awaited him .
When the young men entered , Mr. Grisben was speaking , and his host , who faced the door , sat looking down at his untouched soup - plate and turning the spoon about in his small dry hand .
" It 's pretty late to call them rumours - they were devilish close to facts when we left town this morning , " Mr. Grisben was saying , with an unexpected incisiveness of tone .
Mr. Lavington laid down his spoon and smiled interrogatively .
" Oh , facts - what are facts ?
Just the way a thing happens to look at a given minute .... " " You have n't heard anything from town ? "
Mr. Grisben persisted .
" Not a syllable .
So you see .... Balch , a little more of that petite marmite .
Mr. Faxon ... between Frank and Mr. Grisben , please . "
The dinner progressed through a series of complicated courses , ceremoniously dispensed by a prelatical butler attended by three tall footmen , and it was evident that Mr. Lavington took a certain satisfaction in the pageant .
That , Faxon reflected , was probably the joint in his armour - that and the flowers .
He had changed the subject - not abruptly but firmly - when the young men entered , but Faxon perceived that it still possessed the thoughts of the two elderly visitors , and Mr. Balch presently observed , in a voice that seemed to come from the last survivor down a mine - shaft : " If it does come , it will be the biggest crash since ' 93 . "
Mr. Lavington looked bored but polite .
" Wall Street can stand crashes better than it could then .
It 's got a robuster constitution . "
" Yes ; but - " " Speaking of constitutions , " Mr. Grisben intervened : " Frank , are you taking care of yourself ? "
A flush rose to young Rainer 's cheeks .
" Why , of course !
Is n't that what I 'm here for ? "
" You 're here about three days in the month , are n't you ?
And the rest of the time it 's crowded restaurants and hot ballrooms in town .
I thought you were to be shipped off to New Mexico ? "
" Oh , I 've got a new man who says that 's rot . "
" Well , you do n't look as if your new man were right , " said Mr. Grisben bluntly .
Faxon saw the lad 's colour fade , and the rings of shadow deepen under his gay eyes .
At the same moment his uncle turned to him with a renewed intensity of attention .
There was such solicitude in Mr. Lavington 's gaze that it seemed almost to fling a shield between his nephew and Mr. Grisben 's tactless scrutiny .
" We think Frank 's a good deal better , " he began ; " this new doctor - " The butler , coming up , bent to whisper a word in his ear , and the communication caused a sudden change in Mr. Lavington 's expression .
His face was naturally so colourless that it seemed not so much to pale as to fade , to dwindle and recede into something blurred and blotted - out .
He half rose , sat down again and sent a rigid smile about the table .
" Will you excuse me ?
The telephone .
Peters , go on with the dinner . "
With small precise steps he walked out of the door which one of the footmen had thrown open .
A momentary silence fell on the group ; then Mr. Grisben once more addressed himself to Rainer .
" You ought to have gone , my boy ; you ought to have gone . "
The anxious look returned to the youth 's eyes .
" My uncle does n't think so , really . "
" You 're not a baby , to be always governed by your uncle 's opinion .
You came of age to - day , did n't you ?
Your uncle spoils you .... that 's what 's the matter .... " The thrust evidently went home , for Rainer laughed and looked down with a slight accession of colour .
" But the doctor - " " Use your common sense , Frank !
You had to try twenty doctors to find one to tell you what you wanted to be told . "
A look of apprehension overshadowed Rainer ' , gaiety .
" Oh , come - I say ! ...
What would you do ? "
he stammered .
" Pack up and jump on the first train . "
Mr. Grisben leaned forward and laid his hand kindly on the young man 's arm .
" Look here : my nephew Jim Grisben is out there ranching on a big scale .
He 'll take you in and be glad to have you .
You say your new doctor thinks it wo n't do you any good ; but he does n't pretend to say it will do you harm , does he ?
Well , then - give it a trial .
It 'll take you out of hot theatres and night restaurants , anyhow .... And all the rest of it .... Eh , Balch ? "
" Go ! "
said Mr. Balch hollowly .
" Go at once , " he added , as if a closer look at the youth 's face had impressed on him the need of backing up his friend .
Young Rainer had turned ashy - pale .
He tried to stiffen his mouth into a smile .
" Do I look as bad as all that ? "
Mr. Grisben was helping himself to terrapin .
" You look like the day after an earthquake , " he said .
The terrapin had encircled the table , and been deliberately enjoyed by Mr. Lavington 's three visitors ( Rainer , Faxon noticed , left his plate untouched ) before the door was thrown open to re - admit their host .
Mr. Lavington advanced with an air of recovered composure .
He seated himself , picked up his napkin and consulted the gold - monogrammed menu .
" No , do n't bring back the filet ....
Some terrapin ; yes .... " He looked affably about the table .
" Sorry to have deserted you , but the storm has played the deuce with the wires , and I had to wait a long time before I could get a good connection .
It must be blowing up for a blizzard . "
" Uncle Jack , " young Rainer broke out , " Mr. Grisben 's been lecturing me . "
Mr. Lavington was helping himself to terrapin .
" Ah - what about ? "
" He thinks I ought to have given New Mexico a show . "
" I want him to go straight out to my nephew at Santa Paz and stay there till his next birthday . "
Mr. Lavington signed to the butler to hand the terrapin to Mr. Grisben , who , as he took a second helping , addressed himself again to Rainer .
" Jim 's in New York now , and going back the day after tomorrow in Olyphant 's private car .
I 'll ask Olyphant to squeeze you in if you 'll go .
And when you 've been out there a week or two , in the saddle all day and sleeping nine hours a night , I suspect you wo n't think much of the doctor who prescribed New York . "
Faxon spoke up , he knew not why .
" I was out there once : it 's a splendid life .
I saw a fellow - oh , a really bad case - who 'd been simply made over by it . "
" It does sound jolly , " Rainer laughed , a sudden eagerness in his tone .
His uncle looked at him gently .
" Perhaps Grisben 's right .
It 's an opportunity - " Faxon glanced up with a start : the figure dimly perceived in the study was now more visibly and tangibly planted behind Mr. Lavington 's chair .
" That 's right , Frank : you see your uncle approves .
And the trip out there with Olyphant is n't a thing to be missed .
So drop a few dozen dinners and be at the Grand Central the day after tomorrow at five . "
Mr. Grisben 's pleasant grey eye sought corroboration of his host , and Faxon , in a cold anguish of suspense , continued to watch him as he turned his glance on Mr. Lavington .
One could not look at Lavington without seeing the presence at his back , and it was clear that , the next minute , some change in Mr. Grisben 's expression must give his watcher a clue .
But Mr. Grisben 's expression did not change : the gaze he fixed on his host remained unperturbed , and the clue he gave was the startling one of not seeming to see the other figure .
Faxon 's first impulse was to look away , to look anywhere else , to resort again to the champagne glass the watchful butler had already brimmed ; but some fatal attraction , at war in him with an overwhelming physical resistance , held his eyes upon the spot they feared .
The figure was still standing , more distinctly , and therefore more resemblingly , at Mr. Lavington 's back ; and while the latter continued to gaze affectionately at his nephew , his counterpart , as before , fixed young Rainer with eyes of deadly menace .
Faxon , with what felt like an actual wrench of the muscles , dragged his own eyes from the sight to scan the other countenances about the table ; but not one revealed the least consciousness of what he saw , and a sense of mortal isolation sank upon him .
" It 's worth considering , certainly - " he heard Mr. Lavington continue ; and as Rainer 's face lit up , the face behind his uncle 's chair seemed to gather into its look all the fierce weariness of old unsatisfied hates .
That was the thing that , as the minutes laboured by , Faxon was becoming most conscious of .
The watcher behind the chair was no longer merely malevolent : he had grown suddenly , unutterably tired .
His hatred seemed to well up out of the very depths of balked effort and thwarted hopes , and the fact made him more pitiable , and yet more dire .
Faxon 's look reverted to Mr. Lavington , as if to surprise in him a corresponding change .
At first none was visible : his pinched smile was screwed to his blank face like a gas - light to a white - washed wall .
Then the fixity of the smile became ominous : Faxon saw that its wearer was afraid to let it go .
It was evident that Mr. Lavington was unutterably tired too , and the discovery sent a colder current through Faxon 's veins .
Looking down at his untouched plate , he caught the soliciting twinkle of the champagne glass ; but the sight of the wine turned him sick .
" Well , we 'll go into the details presently , " he heard Mr. Lavington say , still on the question of his nephew 's future .
" Let 's have a cigar first .
No - not here , Peters . "
He turned his smile on Faxon .
" When we 've had coffee I want to show you my pictures . "
" Oh , by the way , Uncle Jack - Mr. Faxon wants to know if you 've got a double ? "
" A double ? "
Mr. Lavington , still smiling , continued to address himself to his guest .
" Not that I know of .
Have you seen one , Mr.
Faxon ? "
Faxon thought : " My God , if I look up now they 'll both be looking at me ! "
To avoid raising his eyes he made as though to lift the glass to his lips ; but his hand sank inert , and he looked up .
Mr. Lavington 's glance was politely bent on him , but with a loosening of the strain about his heart he saw that the figure behind the chair still kept its gaze on Rainer .
" Do you think you 've seen my double , Mr.
Faxon ? "
Would the other face turn if he said yes ?
Faxon felt a dryness in his throat .
" No , " he answered .
" Ah ?
It 's possible I 've a dozen .
I believe I 'm extremely usual - looking , " Mr. Lavington went on conversationally ; and still the other face watched Rainer .
" It was ... a mistake ... a confusion of memory .... " Faxon heard himself stammer .
Mr. Lavington pushed back his chair , and as he did so Mr. Grisben suddenly leaned forward .
" Lavington !
What have we been thinking of ?
We have n't drunk Frank 's health ! "
Mr. Lavington reseated himself .
" My dear boy ! ...
Peters , another bottle .... " He turned to his nephew .
" After such a sin of omission I do n't presume to propose the toast myself ... but Frank knows .... Go ahead , Grisben ! "
The boy shone on his uncle .
" No , no , Uncle Jack !
Mr. Grisben wo n't mind .
Nobody but you - to - day ! "
The butler was replenishing the glasses .
He filled Mr. Lavington 's last , and Mr. Lavington put out his small hand to raise it .... As he did so , Faxon looked away .
" Well , then - All the good I 've wished you in all the past years ....
I put it into the prayer that the coming ones may be healthy and happy and many ... and many , dear boy ! "
Faxon saw the hands about him reach out for their glasses .
Automatically , he reached for his .
His eyes were still on the table , and he repeated to himself with a trembling vehemence : " I wo n't look up !
I wo n't ....
I wo n't .... " His fingers clasped the glass and raised it to the level of his lips .
He saw the other hands making the same motion .
He heard Mr. Grisben 's genial " Hear !
Hear ! "
and Mr. Batch 's hollow echo .
He said to himself , as the rim of the glass touched his lips : " I wo n't look up !
I swear I wo n't !
- " and he looked .
The glass was so full that it required an extraordinary effort to hold it there , brimming and suspended , during the awful interval before he could trust his hand to lower it again , untouched , to the table .
It was this merciful preoccupation which saved him , kept him from crying out , from losing his hold , from slipping down into the bottomless blackness that gaped for him .
As long as the problem of the glass engaged him he felt able to keep his seat , manage his muscles , fit unnoticeably into the group ; but as the glass touched the table his last link with safety snapped .
He stood up and dashed out of the room .
IV In the gallery , the instinct of self - preservation helped him to turn back and sign to young Rainer not to follow .
He stammered out something about a touch of dizziness , and joining them presently ; and the boy nodded sympathetically and drew back .
At the foot of the stairs Faxon ran against a servant .
" I should like to telephone to Weymore , " he said with dry lips .
" Sorry , sir ; wires all down .
We 've been trying the last hour to get New York again for Mr.
Lavington . "
Faxon shot on to his room , burst into it , and bolted the door .
The lamplight lay on furniture , flowers , books ; in the ashes a log still glimmered .
He dropped down on the sofa and hid his face .
The room was profoundly silent , the whole house was still : nothing about him gave a hint of what was going on , darkly and dumbly , in the room he had flown from , and with the covering of his eyes oblivion and reassurance seemed to fall on him .
But they fell for a moment only ; then his lids opened again to the monstrous vision .
There it was , stamped on his pupils , a part of him forever , an indelible horror burnt into his body and brain .
But why into his - just his ?
Why had he alone been chosen to see what he had seen ?
What business was it of his , in God 's name ?
Any one of the others , thus enlightened , might have exposed the horror and defeated it ; but he , the one weaponless and defenceless spectator , the one whom none of the others would believe or understand if he attempted to reveal what he knew - he alone had been singled out as the victim of this dreadful initiation !
Suddenly he sat up , listening : he had heard a step on the stairs .
Some one , no doubt , was coming to see how he was - to urge him , if he felt better , to go down and join the smokers .
Cautiously he opened his door ; yes , it was young Rainer 's step .
Faxon looked down the passage , remembered the other stairway and darted to it .
All he wanted was to get out of the house .
Not another instant would he breathe its abominable air !
What business was it of his , in God 's name ?
He reached the opposite end of the lower gallery , and beyond it saw the hall by which he had entered .
It was empty , and on a long table he recognized his coat and cap .
He got into his coat , unbolted the door , and plunged into the purifying night .
The darkness was deep , and the cold so intense that for an instant it stopped his breathing .
Then he perceived that only a thin snow was falling , and resolutely he set his face for flight .
The trees along the avenue marked his way as he hastened with long strides over the beaten snow .
Gradually , while he walked , the tumult in his brain subsided .
The impulse to fly still drove him forward , but he began feel that he was flying from a terror of his own creating , and that the most urgent reason for escape was the need of hiding his state , of shunning other eyes till he should regain his balance .
He had spent the long hours in the train in fruitless broodings on a discouraging situation , and he remembered how his bitterness had turned to exasperation when he found that the Weymore sleigh was not awaiting him .
It was absurd , of course ; but , though he had joked with Rainer over Mrs. Culme 's forgetfulness , to confess it had cost a pang .
That was what his rootless life had brought him to : for lack of a personal stake in things his sensibility was at the mercy of such trifles ....
Yes ; that , and the cold and fatigue , the absence of hope and the haunting sense of starved aptitudes , all these had brought him to the perilous verge over which , once or twice before , his terrified brain had hung .
Why else , in the name of any imaginable logic , human or devilish , should he , a stranger , be singled out for this experience ?
What could it mean to him , how was he related to it , what bearing had it on his case ? ...
Unless , indeed , it was just because he was a stranger - a stranger everywhere - because he had no personal life , no warm screen of private egotisms to shield him from exposure , that he had developed this abnormal sensitiveness to the vicissitudes of others .
The thought pulled him up with a shudder .
No !
Such a fate was too abominable ; all that was strong and sound in him rejected it .
A thousand times better regard himself as ill , disorganized , deluded , than as the predestined victim of such warnings !
He reached the gates and paused before the darkened lodge .
The wind had risen and was sweeping the snow into his race .
The cold had him in its grasp again , and he stood uncertain .
Should he put his sanity to the test and go back ?
He turned and looked down the dark drive to the house .
A single ray shone through the trees , evoking a picture of the lights , the flowers , the faces grouped about that fatal room .
He turned and plunged out into the road ....
He remembered that , about a mile from Overdale , the coachman had pointed out the road to Northridge ; and he began to walk in that direction .
Once in the road he had the gale in his face , and the wet snow on his moustache and eye - lashes instantly hardened to ice .
The same ice seemed to be driving a million blades into his throat and lungs , but he pushed on , the vision of the warm room pursuing him .
The snow in the road was deep and uneven .
He stumbled across ruts and sank into drifts , and the wind drove against him like a granite cliff .
Now and then he stopped , gasping , as if an invisible hand had tightened an iron band about his body ; then he started again , stiffening himself against the stealthy penetration of the cold .
The snow continued to descend out of a pall of inscrutable darkness , and once or twice he paused , fearing he had missed the road to Northridge ; but , seeing no sign of a turn , he ploughed on .
At last , feeling sure that he had walked for more than a mile , he halted and looked back .
The act of turning brought immediate relief , first because it put his back to the wind , and then because , far down the road , it showed him the gleam of a lantern .
A sleigh was coming - a sleigh that might perhaps give him a lift to the village !
Fortified by the hope , he began to walk back toward the light .
It came forward very slowly , with unaccountable sigsags and waverings ; and even when he was within a few yards of it he could catch no sound of sleigh - bells .
Then it paused and became stationary by the roadside , as though carried by a pedestrian who had stopped , exhausted by the cold .
The thought made Faxon hasten on , and a moment later he was stooping over a motionless figure huddled against the snow - bank .
The lantern had dropped from its bearer 's hand , and Faxon , fearfully raising it , threw its light into the face of Frank Rainer .
" Rainer !
What on earth are you doing here ? "
The boy smiled back through his pallour .
" What are you , I 'd like to know ? "
he retorted ; and , scrambling to his feet with a clutch oh Faxon 's arm , he added gaily : " Well , I 've run you down ! "
Faxon stood confounded , his heart sinking .
The lad 's face was grey .
" What madness - " he began .
" Yes , it is .
What on earth did you do it for ? "
" I ?
Do what ? ...
Why I ....
I was just taking a walk ....
I often walk at night .... " Frank Rainer burst into a laugh .
" On such nights ?
Then you had n't bolted ? "
" Bolted ? "
" Because I 'd done something to offend you ?
My uncle thought you had . "
Faxon grasped his arm .
" Did your uncle send you after me ? "
" Well , he gave me an awful rowing for not going up to your room with you when you said you were ill . And when we found you 'd gone we were frightened - and he was awfully upset - so I said I 'd catch you .... You 're not ill , are you ? "
" Ill ?
No .
Never better . "
Faxon picked up the lantern .
" Come ; let 's go back .
It was awfully hot in that dining - room . "
" Yes ; I hoped it was only that . "
They trudged on in silence for a few minutes ; then Faxon questioned : " You 're not too done up ? "
" Oh , no .
It 's a lot easier with the wind behind us . "
" All right .
Do n't talk any more . "
They pushed ahead , walking , in spite of the light that guided them , more slowly than Faxon had walked alone into the gale .
The fact of his companion 's stumbling against a drift gave Faxon a pretext for saying : " Take hold of my arm , " and Rainer obeying , gasped out : " I 'm blown ! "
" So am I.
Who would n't be ? "
" What a dance you led me !
If it had n't been for one of the servants happening to see you - " " Yes ; all right .
And now , wo n't you kindly shut up ? "
Rainer laughed and hung on him .
" Oh , the cold does n't hurt me .... " For the first few minutes after Rainer had overtaken him , anxiety for the lad had been Faxon 's only thought .
But as each labouring step carried them nearer to the spot he had been fleeing , the reasons for his flight grew more ominous and more insistent .
No , he was not ill , he was not distraught and deluded - he was the instrument singled out to warn and save ; and here he was , irresistibly driven , dragging the victim back to his doom !
The intensity of the conviction had almost checked his steps .
But what could he do or say ?
At all costs he must get Rainer out of the cold , into the house and into his bed .
After that he would act .
The snow - fall was thickening , and as they reached a stretch of the road between open fields the wind took them at an angle , lashing their faces with barbed thongs .
Rainer stopped to take breath , and Faxon felt the heavier pressure of his arm .
" When we get to the lodge , ca n't we telephone to the stable for a sleigh ? "
" If they 're not all asleep at the lodge . "
" Oh , I 'll manage .
Do n't talk ! "
Faxon ordered ; and they plodded on .... At length the lantern ray showed ruts that curved away from the road under tree - darkness .
Faxon 's spirits rose .
" There 's the gate !
We 'll be there in five minutes . "
As he spoke he caught , above the boundary hedge , the gleam of a light at the farther end of the dark avenue .
It was the same light that had shone on the scene of which every detail was burnt into his brain ; and he felt again its overpowering reality .
No - he could n't let the boy go back !
They were at the lodge at last , and Faxon was hammering on the door .
He said to himself : " I 'll get him inside first , and make them give him a hot drink .
Then I 'll see - I 'll find an argument .... " There was no answer to his knocking , and after an interval Rainer said : " Look here - we 'd better go on . "
" No ! "
" I can , perfectly - " " You sha'n't go to the house , I say ! "
Faxon redoubled his blows , and at length steps sounded on the stairs .
Rainer was leaning against the lintel , and as the door opened the light from the hall flashed on his pale face and fixed eyes .
Faxon caught him by the arm and drew him in .
" It was cold out there . "
he sighed ; and then , abruptly , as if invisible shears at a single stroke had cut every muscle in his body , he swerved , drooped on Faxon 's arm , and seemed to sink into nothing at his feet .
The lodge - keeper and Faxon bent over him , and somehow , between them , lifted him into the kitchen and laid him on a sofa by the stove .
The lodge - keeper , stammering : " I 'll ring up the house , " dashed out of the room .
But Faxon heard the words without heeding them : omens mattered nothing now , beside this woe fulfilled .
He knelt down to undo the fur collar about Rainer 's throat , and as he did so he felt a warm moisture on his hands .
He held them up , and they were red .... V The palms threaded their endless line along the yellow river .
The little steamer lay at the wharf , and George Faxon , sitting in the verandah of the wooden hotel , idly watched the coolies carrying the freight across the gang - plank .
He had been looking at such scenes for two months .
Nearly five had elapsed since he had descended from the train at Northridge and strained his eyes for the sleigh that was to take him to Weymore : Weymore , which he was never to behold ! ...
Part of the interval - the first part - was still a great grey blur .
Even now he could not be quite sure how he had got back to Boston , reached the house of a cousin , and been thence transferred to a quiet room looking out on snow under bare trees .
He looked out a long time at the same scene , and finally one day a man he had known at Harvard came to see him and invited him to go out on a business trip to the Malay Peninsula .
" You 've had a bad shake - up , and it 'll do you no end of good to get away from things . "
When the doctor came the next day it turned out that he knew of the plan and approved it .
" You ought to be quiet for a year .
Just loaf and look at the landscape , " he advised .
Faxon felt the first faint stirrings of curiosity .
" What 's been the matter with me , anyway ? "
" Well , over - work , I suppose .
You must have been bottling up for a bad breakdown before you started for New Hampshire last December .
And the shock of that poor boy 's death did the rest . "
Ah , yes - Rainer had died .
He remembered ....
He started for the East , and gradually , by imperceptible degrees , life crept back into his weary bones and leaden brain .
His friend was patient and considerate , and they travelled slowly and talked little .
At first Faxon had felt a great shrinking from whatever touched on familiar things .
He seldom looked at a newspaper and he never opened a letter without a contraction of the heart .
It was not that he had any special cause for apprehension , but merely that a great trail of darkness lay on everything .
He had looked too deep down into the abyss ....
But little by little health and energy returned to him , and with them the common promptings of curiosity .
He was beginning to wonder how the world was going , and when , presently , the hotel - keeper told him there were no letters for him in the steamer 's mail - bag , he felt a distinct sense of disappointment .
His friend had gone into the jungle on a long excursion , and he was lonely , unoccupied and wholesomely bored .
He got up and strolled into the stuffy reading - room .
There he found a game of dominoes , a mutilated picture - puzzle , some copies of Zion 's Herald and a pile of New York and London newspapers .
He began to glance through the papers , and was disappointed to find that they were less recent than he had hoped .
Evidently the last numbers had been carried off by luckier travellers .
He continued to turn them over , picking out the American ones first .
These , as it happened , were the oldest : they dated back to December and January .
To Faxon , however , they had all the flavour of novelty , since they covered the precise period during which he had virtually ceased to exist .
It had never before occurred to him to wonder what had happened in the world during that interval of obliteration ; but now he felt a sudden desire to know .
To prolong the pleasure , he began by sorting the papers chronologically , and as he found and spread out the earliest number , the date at the top of the page entered into his consciousness like a key slipping into a lock .
It was the seventeenth of December : the date of the day after his arrival at Northridge .
He glanced at the first page and read in blazing characters : " Reported Failure of Opal Cement Company .
Lavington 's name involved .
Gigantic Exposure of Corruption Shakes Wall Street to Its Foundations . "
He read on , and when he had finished the first paper he turned to the next .
There was a gap of three days , but the Opal Cement " Investigation " still held the centre of the stage .
From its complex revelations of greed and ruin his eye wandered to the death notices , and he read : " Rainer .
Suddenly , at Northridge , New Hampshire , Francis John , only son of the late .... " His eyes clouded , and he dropped the newspaper and sat for a long time with his face in his hands .
When he looked up again he noticed that his gesture had pushed the other papers from the table and scattered them at his feet .
The uppermost lay spread out before him , and heavily his eyes began their search again .
" John Lavington comes forward with plan for reconstructing Company .
Offers to put in ten millions of his own - The proposal under consideration by the District Attorney . "
Ten millions ... ten millions of his own .
But if John Lavington was ruined ? ...
Faxon stood up with a cry .
That was it , then - that was what the warning meant !
And if he had not fled from it , dashed wildly away from it into the night , he might have broken the spell of iniquity , the powers of darkness might not have prevailed !
He caught up the pile of newspapers and began to glance through each in turn for the head - line : " Wills Admitted to Probate . "
In the last of all he found the paragraph he sought , and it stared up at him as if with Rainer 's dying eyes .
That - that was what he had done !
The powers of pity had singled him out to warn and save , and he had closed his ears to their call , and washed his hands of it , and fled .
Washed his hands of it !
That was the word .
It caught him back to the dreadful moment in the lodge when , raising himself up from Rainer 's side , he had looked at his hands and seen that they were red .... 
The story goes , one of the stories of a hundred , that Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi one day ascending into the pulpit to preach , said , ' O believers , do ye not know what I am going to say to you ? '
The congregation answered , ' Dear Cogia Efendi , we do not know . '
Then said the Cogia , ' What shall I say to you until you do know ? '
One day the Cogia ascending again into the pulpit , said , ' O Mussulmen , do ye not know what I am going to say to you ? '
' We do know , ' they replied .
Then said the Cogia , ' Some of ye do know already , what should I have to say to you ? '
Then descending from the chair he went out .
The assembly separated quite astonished , and , when they were out , continued to say , ' Which are those of us who know ?
Which are those who do not know ? '
The Cogia one day again mounting the chair in the same manner , said , ' O brothers , when I said to ye , " Do you know what I shall say ? "
there were some who said , " We know , " others said , " We do not . "
It were now well that those among ye who knew what the Cogia said should teach those that did not . '
One day Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi said , ' O Mussulmen , give thanks to God Most High that He did not give the camel wings ; for , had He given them , they would have perched upon your houses and chimneys , and have caused them to tumble upon your heads . '
One day Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi having mounted the chair in a city , said , ' O Mussulmen , the air above this city is just like the air above my city . '
The congregation said , ' O Cogia Efendi , how do you know that ? '
Said the Cogia , ' Because I have seen as many stars above this city as I saw above Belgrade . '
One night the Cogia dreamt that he was given nine aspres , whereupon the Cogia said , ' O now pray make them up ten ' ; afterwards he said , ' Make them up eleven , ' and then presently , a dispute having arisen , he awoke and saw that in his hand he had nothing , thereupon closing his eyes anew and stretching out his hands , he said , ' Well , well , I shall be content with nine aspres . '
One day the Cogia went out into the plain , and as he was going along he suddenly saw some men on horseback coming towards him .
Cogia Efendi , in a great hurry , set off towards a cemetery , and having reached it took off his clothes , and entering into a tomb lay down .
The horsemen , on seeing the Cogia run away , followed him to the place where he lay , and said , ' O fellow , why do you lie here ? '
Cogia Efendi , finding nothing else to say , replied , ' I am one of the buried people , but came here to walk . '
Cogia Efendi one day went into a garden , pulled up some carrots and turnips and other kinds of vegetables , which he found , putting some into a sack and some into his bosom ; suddenly the gardener coming up , laid hold of him , and said , ' What are you seeking here ? '
The Cogia , being in great consternation , not finding any other reply , answered , ' For some days past a great wind has been blowing , and that wind blew me hither . '
' But who pulled up these vegetables ? '
said the gardener .
' As the wind blew very violently , ' replied the Cogia , ' it cast me here and there , and whatever I laid hold of in the hope of saving myself remained in my hands . '
' Ah , ' said the gardener , ' but who filled the sack with them ? '
' Well , ' said the Cogia , ' that is the very question I was about to ask myself when you came up . '
One day Cogia Efendi , on whom God be merciful , went to the city of Conia , and going into a pastry - cook 's shop , seized hold of a tart , and saying , ' In the Name of God , ' began to eat it .
The pastry - cook cried out , ' Halloa , fellow , what are you about ? '
and fell to beating him .
The Cogia said , ' Oh what a fine country is this of Conia , in which , whilst a man eats a tart , they put in a blow as a digester for every morsel . '
Cogia Nasr Eddin , at the time of the Holy Ramadan , thought to himself , ' What must I do in order to hold the fast in conformity with the people ?
I must prepare an earthen pot , and every day put a stone into it , and when thirty days are completed I may hold my Beiram . '
So he commenced placing stones in the pot , one every day .
Now it happened one day that a daughter of the Cogia cast a handful of stones into the pot , and a little time after some people asked the Cogia , ' What day of the month is it to - day ? '
Now it happened to be the twenty - fifth .
The Cogia , however , said to them , ' Have patience and I will see ' ; and going to his house and emptying the pot , perceived that there were a hundred and twenty stones in it .
Says the Cogia to himself , ' If I tell the people all this number they will call me a fool . '
So going to them he said , ' This day is the forty - fifth day of the month . '
But , said they , ' O Cogia , a month has in all but thirty days , so how can you say that to - day is the forty - fifth ? '
' I spoke quite within bounds , ' said the Cogia .
' If you were to see the account in the pot you would find that to - day is the hundred and twentieth . '
One day the Cogia was asked , ' When there is a new moon , what becomes of the old one ? '
' They make forty stars out of each , ' said the Cogia .
One day the Cogia went out of the city along with a cafila or caravan of people , and felt a wish to ride .
Now there was a camel belonging to the cafila , and the Cogia said to himself , ' Now , if instead of walking I should mount on this camel , how comfortably could I travel ! '
Thereupon mounting on the camel , he proceeded along with the cafila .
The camel , however , falling to kicking , flung the Cogia to the earth and knelt upon him .
The Cogia cried out loudly , and the people of the cafila came and rescued him .
After a little time the Cogia , coming to his senses , said , ' O Mussulmen , did you not see how that perfidious camel maltreated me ?
Now do hold the perfidious brute for me , that I may cut its throat . '
One day the Cogia bought a quantity of eggs at the rate of nine for the aspre , and carrying them to another place , he sold them at the rate of ten .
Some people asking him , ' Why do you sell ten for what you gave for nine ? '
the Cogia replied , ' I always wish my friends to see that I lose by my bargains . '
One day the Cogia walking along the plain met a heifer , and forthwith laying thievish hands upon it , led it straight to his house , where he slaughtered it and stripped off the skin .
The proprietor soon appeared before the Cogia 's house , making a loud cry and lamentation .
' Who would have thought , ' said the Cogia to his people and his wife , ' that my flaying the heifer would have made that fellow 's face look so black ? '
One day the Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi passing along the bazaar , an individual coming up to him said , ' Pray , Cogia , what is the moon to - day ?
Is it at three or four ? '
' I do n't know , ' said the Cogia .
' I neither buy nor sell the moon . '
One day the Cogia taking a ladder on his shoulder , placed it against a garden wall , and mounting , got over , taking the ladder with him .
The gardener seeing him said , ' Who are you ?
and what do you want here ? '
' I am come to sell this ladder , ' said the Cogia without hesitation .
' Is this a place for selling a ladder ? '
said the gardener .
' O you foolish man , ' said the Cogia , ' can not a ladder be sold anywhere ? '
Nasr Eddin Efendi one day taking hold of some fowls one by one , tied some strips of an apron round their throats , and then let them go .
The learned men having assembled round the Cogia , said , ' What was the matter with these fowls ? '
Said the Cogia , ' They merely went into mourning for their slaughtered mothers . '
One day a bull mounted a young cow of the Cogia 's .
The Cogia seeing what he was about , took a staff in his hand and ran towards him .
The bull fled towards the car of a Turcoman , to which seven other oxen were attached .
The Cogia keeping the ox in view , ran after him , and with the staff in his hand struck the ox several blows .
' Halloa , man ! '
said the Turcoman .
' What do you want with my ox ? '
' Do n't you interfere , you foolish dog , ' said the Cogia .
' He knows full well what he has done . '
One day the Cogia made his last will .
' When I die , ' said he , ' place me in an old tomb . '
When the people about him said , ' Why do you make this request ? '
the Cogia said , ' When the inquiring angels come and ask me questions , I can say , " I am deaf .
Do you not see that I as well as my tomb am old ? " '
One day Cogia Efendi , putting on very short habiliments , went to the mosque to say his prayers .
Whilst performing the rakoua the man who was behind him perceiving the Cogia 's - seized hold of them and squeezed them , whereupon the Cogia , seizing hold of those of the man who was before him , squeezed them too ; the man , turning round and perceiving that it was Cogia Efendi himself , said , ' Halloa , what are you about ? '
' You must ask the man behind me , ' said the Cogia .
One day the boys of Belgrade took the Cogia along with them into the bath .
They had secretly brought in their pouches a number of eggs .
One and all going into the bathing - house , took off their clothes and went in , and then , sitting down on the bench , they all said to one another , ' Come , let us lay eggs : whosoever does not lay an egg shall pay the expenses of the bath ' ; after which they began to make a great noise , cackling like hens , and flinging the eggs which they had brought on the stone bench .
Cogia Efendi , seeing what they were about , suddenly began to make a great noise and crow like a cock .
' What are you about , Cogia Efendi ? '
said the boys .
' Why , ' said he , ' is not a cock necessary where there are so many hens ? '
One day the Cogia , putting on black clothes , went out .
The people , looking at him , said , ' Cogia Efendi , for whose death are you in mourning ? '
The Cogia answered , ' My son 's father is dead , and I wear mourning for him . '
One day Cogia , returning from the harvest field , felt very thirsty .
Looking around , he saw that they watered a tree by means of a pipe from a fountain .
The Cogia exclaimed , ' I must drink , ' and pulled at the spout , and as he did so the water , spouting forth with violence , wetted the mouth and head of the Cogia , who , in a great rage , said , ' They watered this wretched tree in order that one fool might wet another . '
One day the Cogia , taking some water melons with him , went to the mountain in order to cut wood .
Feeling thirsty , he cut one of the melons , and , putting it to his mouth , cast it away , saying that it was tasteless .
He then cut up another , and , to be short , he cut them all up , and , having eaten a little of each , made water over what remained .
He then fell to work at cutting wood .
After some time the Cogia again became thirsty , and finding no water , he went to the bits of the melons which he had cut up , and saying , ' This is sprinkled , and this is sprinkled , ' ate them all .
Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi had a lamb which he had fattened to a high degree .
One day some of his friends having assembled , said , ' Let us get the lamb from the Cogia and feast upon it . '
So coming to the Cogia as quick as possible , they said , ' O Cogia , to - morrow is the Day of Judgment ; what would you do with this lamb ?
Come , take it , and let us eat it . '
The Cogia , however , would not believe them .
Coming again , however , they said the same thing , and the Cogia , at last believing their words were true , slaughtered the lamb , and , taking it on his back , he carried it to the public walk , and , lighting a fire , he began to prepare a roast .
Presently , stripping their bodies , they delivered their clothes to the Cogia , and each went aside to sleep .
Whereupon the Cogia , taking their garments , flung them all into the fire and burnt them .
In a little time , their bellies becoming hungry from the sleep they had had , they came again , and saw that their garments were nearly reduced to a coal .
Whereupon they said to the Cogia , ' Who burnt our clothes ? '
' My dear friends , ' replied the Cogia , ' to - morrow is the Day of Resurrection , so what need can you have of clothes ? '
One day a thief , entering the house of the Cogia , laid hold of everything there was there , and , placing it on his back , went away .
The Cogia , however , spying somebody going out , followed the thief , who went into his own house .
The Cogia following close behind , pushed against him at the door .
Whereupon the thief said , ' What do you want , Cogia Efendi ? '
' What do I want ? '
said the Cogia .
' Why , are we not going to remove hither to - day ? '
One day certain individuals stole from the Cogia a sum of money , whereupon the Cogia said , ' O Lord , what need have you that you give my money to others . '
So he made a dreadful outcry , and going into the mosque , wept until it was morning , groaning like a ship labouring in the sea .
Those who were there said , ' Ye who have found salvation make up a sum of money for the Cogia . '
So whosoever had found salvation through the assistance of the Almighty made up what he could , and brought it to the Cogia .
Whereupon the Cogia exclaimed , ' Allah , Allah !
by lying one night publicly in the mosque and weeping , I have caused Allah to send me my money again . '
One day the Cogia borrowed a cauldron of a brazier , and carrying it home , put a little saucepan into it , and then carrying it back , returned it to its owner .
The owner seeing a little saucepan in the cauldron , said , ' What is this ? '
' Why , ' cried the Cogia , ' the cauldron has borne a child ' ; whereupon the owner took possession of the saucepan .
One day the Cogia asked again for the cauldron , and having obtained it , carried it home .
The owner of the cauldron waited one day and even five days for his utensil , but no cauldron coming , he went to the house of the Cogia and knocked at the door .
The Cogia coming to the door , said , ' What do you want ? '
' The cauldron , ' said the man .
' Oh , set your heart at rest , ' said the Cogia , ' the cauldron is dead . '
' O Cogia , ' said the man , ' can a cauldron die ? '
' Oh , ' said the Cogia , ' as you believed it could bear a child , why should you not believe that it can die ? '
One day the Cogia , walking amongst the sepulchres , saw a large dog lying upon a gravestone .
The Cogia , in a great rage laying hold on a stick , aimed a blow at the dog , who in his turn assaulted the Cogia .
The Cogia fearing that he should be torn to pieces , said to the dog , ' Get you gone : I conquered .
Get you gone . '
One day the Cogia laying hold on a crane , took it home , and saying that its beak and feet were very long , cut them off with a knife ; and placing it on a lofty place , said , ' Now you look like a bird . '
One day the Cogia having made his broth very hot , burnt his mouth , and making a great outcry , ran into the street , saying , ' Make way , brothers : there is a fire in my belly . '
A Moolah , who had travelled about Arabia , Persia , Hindustan , and , in a word , the whole seven climes without finding any one who could answer his questions , was told by a man , ' In this country there is a man called Cogia Nasr Eddin , who will answer your questions if any one can . '
The Moolah arising , went straight to Belgrade , where he bought an aspre 's worth of pomegranates , which he placed in his bosom .
Going out of the suburbs of Belgrade , he saw a man going to his labour ; now this was the Cogia himself .
Going up to him he saw a man like a fakeah , with shoes of raw hide on his feet and a kiebbeh or rough cloak on his back .
When he was close by him he said to him , ' Salaam ' ; and the Cogia saying to him , ' Peace be unto you , ' said , ' Moolah Efendi , for what have you come ? '
The Moolah replied , ' Can you answer a question which I shall ask ? '
The Cogia said , ' I can . '
' Do you know so - and - so ? '
The Cogia said , ' I can do nothing without being paid .
What will you give me ? '
The Moolah taking the pomegranates which were in his bosom , gave him one ; whereupon the Cogia answered his question , and got all his pomegranates , one by one , till not a single grain remained .
The Moolah then said , ' I have yet one question to ask . '
The Cogia replied , ' Go your way : do n't trouble me .
The pomegranates are spent . '
Whereupon the Moolah went away , saying , ' If the labourers of Moom are of this description , what must the learned men be ? '
One day the Cogia saw a great many ducks playing on the top of a fountain .
The Cogia , running towards them , said , ' I 'll catch you ' ; whereupon they all rose up and took to flight .
The Cogia , taking a little bread in his hand , sat down on the side of the fountain , and crumbling the bread in the fountain , fell to eating .
A person coming up , said , ' What are you eating ? '
' Duck broth , ' replied the Cogia .
One day the Cogia having bought a liver , was carrying it to his house ; suddenly a kite , swooping from above with a loud scream , seized the liver , and flew off with it .
The Cogia remained staring after it , but saw that it was impossible to recover his meat .
Making up his mind , he ran up to the top of an eminence , and a person passing below with a liver in his hand , the Cogia darted down and snatched the liver out of the person 's hand , and ran again up the rock .
' Hallo , Cogia , ' said the man , ' what are you about ? '
' I was merely playing the kite out of fun , ' said the Cogia .
A person coming to Nasr Eddin Efendi , requested him to let him have a rope .
The Cogia went into his house , and coming out again , said , ' The rope is striking ten . '
' How can a rope strike ten ? '
said the man .
' It will always be striking ten , ' said the Cogia , ' till I feel inclined to give you the rope . '
One day the Cogia put some fowls into a cage and set out for the castle of Siouri .
As he was going along he said to himself , ' These poor wretches are here imprisoned : I think I may as well give them a little liberty . '
So he let them all out , and all the hens ran off in one direction or another .
The Cogia taking a stick in his hand , placed himself before the cock , pushing him and driving him , saying , ' O you who in the middle of the night knowest when it is morning , how is it that in broad day thou knowest not the way to the castle ? '
One day as the Cogia was wandering amongst the tombs , by the side of the way he fell into an old tomb , and making believe as if he were dead , he said , ' Let me see Mounkhir .
Is Nekir coming ? '
As he lay there stretched at his length , it appeared to him that he heard from afar the voice of a bell .
' It is the noise of the Day of Judgment , ' said the Cogia , and forthwith sprang out of the tomb .
Now it happened that a caravan was coming , and the Cogia , by putting out his head , frightened the camels , who jostled each other in great confusion .
No sooner did the conductors see the Cogia than , seizing their cudgels , they said to him , ' You !
Who are you ? '
The Cogia said to them , ' I am one who is dead . '
' And what are you doing here ? '
said the conductors .
' I merely came to take a walk , ' said the Cogia .
' We will now make you take a pretty walk , ' said the carriers , and instantly began belabouring him with their cudgels .
The Cogia , with tears streaming from his eyes , ran home .
' Where have you been ? '
said his wife .
' I have been dead , ' said the Cogia , ' and in the tomb . '
' And what is there in the other world ? '
said his wife .
' Nothing , ' said the Cogia , ' provided you do n't frighten carriers ' camels . '
Once upon a time the Cogia was sent into Curdistan along with the Ambassador .
Whilst he was there the Curdish Beys invited the Cogia to a feast which they had made in honour of him .
The Cogia , putting on a pelisse , went to the place of festival .
During the entertainment he chanced to belch .
' You do wrong to belch , Cogia Moolah Efendi , ' said the Beys .
' I am amongst Curds , ' said the Cogia .
' How should they know a Turkish belching , even though they hear it ? '
One day the Cogia went with Cheragh Ahmed to the den of a wolf , in order to see the cubs .
Said the Cogia to Ahmed : ' Do you go in . '
Ahmed did so .
The old wolf was abroad , but presently returning , tried to get into the cave to its young .
When it was about half - way in the Cogia seized hard hold of it by the tail .
The wolf in its struggles cast a quantity of dust into the eyes of Ahmed .
' Hallo , Cogia , ' he cried , ' what does this dust mean ? '
' If the wolf 's tail breaks , ' said the Cogia , ' you 'll soon see what the dust means . '
One day the Cogia mounted upon a tree , and , sitting upon a branch , forthwith began to cut it .
A person coming up said , ' Hallo , man !
what are you about ?
as soon as you have cut the branch you will fall . '
The Cogia made no answer , but went on cutting , and no sooner had he cut through the bough than down fell the Cogia to the ground .
Getting up , he ran after the person , crying out , ' Ho , fellow , if you knew that I should fall you also knew that I should kill myself , ' and forthwith seized him by the collar .
The man , finding no other way to save himself , said , ' Leave hold of me and fling yourself down on the road face upwards .
At the first belching that you give half your soul will leave your body ; at the second , all will go and not a particle will remain . '
The Cogia did so , and at the second belching , laying himself down on the ground , he cried , ' I am dead , ' and remained motionless .
Forthwith the Ulemas hastened to him , and bringing with them a coffin , placed him in it , saying , ' Let us carry him home . '
On their way , coming to a miry place , they said , ' We will rest , ' and began to talk together .
The Cogia , forthwith raising his head from the coffin , said , ' If I were alive I would get out of this place as quick as possible . '
One day the Cogia set about making a stable under the earth .
As he was digging , he got into a stable of one of his neighbours , in which he found several oxen .
The Cogia , very much rejoiced , went into his house , and said , ' O wife , I have found a stable of oxen ; a relic of the times of the Caffirs .
Now what will you give me for bringing you this piece of good news ? '
Nasr Eddin Efendi had two daughters .
One day the two coming to see their father , the Cogia said to them , ' Well , daughters , how do things go on with you ? '
Now , the husband of one of them was a farmer , that of the other was a maker of tiles .
One of them said , ' My husband has sown a great deal of corn ; if there is plenty of rain my husband will give me a new gown . '
The other said , ' My husband is a tile - maker ; he has made a great quantity ; if there is not a drop of rain he will give me a new gown . '
The Cogia said , ' One of you two may be worth a cucumber , but which of the two God knows , I do n't . '
One day the Cogia being at Siouri Castle he saw a great many people assembled to look at the moon .
' What a strange land is this , ' said the Cogia .
' In our country they pay no attention to the moon when it is as big as a cart wheel , but here , when it is quite new and of scarcely any size , what a number of people assemble to look at it . '
Once as Nasr Eddin Efendi was walking in Belgrade he cried out , ' O Lord !
give me a thousand altoons , but if one be wanting I will not take the rest . '
Now these words of the Cogia were heard by a neighbour of his , a Jew , who , in order to try the Cogia , put nine hundred and ninety - nine altoons into a purse and flung it down the Cogia 's chimney .
The Cogia sees a purse full of money before him , up he gets , and saying , ' Our prayer has been accepted , ' he opens the purse , and , counting the altoons , finds that one is wanting .
' Never mind , ' says he , ' He who gives these can give one more , ' and takes possession of the money .
The Jew now began to be in a fidget , and , getting up , knocked at the Cogia 's door .
' Good day , Cogia Efendi , ' said he , ' please to give me back my altoons . '
Quoth the Cogia to the Jew , ' You are a merchant , and not a fool ; I made a request to God on high , He gave me what I asked ; what business had you to fling altoons to me ? '
The Jew said , ' O Cogia of my soul , I said I will have a jest with you .
On hearing you say , " If one is wanting I will not take the rest , " I said to myself , " I will see whether you will or not " ; I did it merely in jest . '
' Jest , ' said the Cogia , ' I know nothing of jest ; I accepted the gold . '
' Come , come ! '
said the Jew , ' we will go before the Judge . '
Said the Cogia , ' I will not go on foot before the Judge . '
Thereupon the Jew brought the Cogia a mule .
' Very good , ' said the Cogia , ' but I must now have a pelisse for my back . '
The Jew brought him the pelisse , and they set off to the tribunal of the Cadi .
The Cadi asking what they came for , the Jew said , ' This man took from me so many altoons and now he denies having done so . '
The Cadi looked in the Cogia 's face , whereupon the Cogia said , ' My Lord , I asked in prayer of the Most High a thousand altoons , which He gave .
On counting them , however , I found that one was wanting , whereupon I said , " He who gives so many altoons will doubtless give one more , " and I accepted them ; but , my Lord , this Jew says that the pelisse which you see on my back , and the mule on which I am mounted , are also his . '
' Yes , assuredly , my Lord , ' said the Jew , ' for mine they are both . '
No sooner had he said these words than every one cried out , ' Upon you , you Jew rascal , ' and , rushing upon him , they broke his head and kicked him out of the tribunal , and the Cogia was sent home to his house in triumph , not only with the altoons but the pelisse and the mule beside .
One day Cogia Efendi went to a bridal festival .
The master of the feast observing his old and wretched garments , paid him no consideration whatever .
The Cogia saw that he had no chance of notice ; so going out he hurried to his house , and putting on a splendid pelisse , returned to the place of festival .
No sooner did he enter the door than the master advanced to meet him , and saying , ' Welcome , Cogia Efendi , ' with all imaginable honour and reverence placed him at the head of the table , and said , ' Please to eat , Lord Cogia . '
Forthwith the Cogia taking hold of one of the furs of his pelisse , said , ' Welcome , my pelisse , please to eat , my lord . '
The master looking at the Cogia with great surprise , said , ' What are you about ? '
Whereupon the Cogia replied , ' It is quite evident that all the honour paid is paid to my pelisse , so let it have some food too . '
Nasr Eddin Efendi going one day into a city , found the doctors of the law eating and drinking ; no sooner did they see the Cogia than they showed him great honour , and brought him food .
It happened that that year was a year of famine , and the Cogia whilst eating and drinking , said to himself , ' No doubt this city must be one in which provisions are very cheap , ' and asked a man who was by him whether it were not so .
The man replied , ' Are you mad ?
this day is Beiram , every one according to his means cooks meat in his house and brings it forth , and on that account the food is plentiful . '
' Ah , my good man , ' said the Cogia , ' I wish that every day was Beiram . '
One day Cogia Efendi led a cow to the market for sale ; backwards and forwards he led it , but was unable to sell it ; presently a man advancing to the Cogia , said , ' Why do you hold this cow in your hand without selling it ? '
Said the Cogia , ' I have led it about since the morning , and notwithstanding all the fine things that I have said about it I have been unable to sell it . '
The individual taking the cow from the Cogia 's hand , began to walk it about , exclaiming , ' Who will buy a young girl six months gone with child ? '
Forthwith buyers followed at his heels , and a very considerable sum was offered .
The Cogia , very much surprised , took the money for the cow , and went running to his house .
The inspectors , however , coming , took away the Cogia 's daughter , whereupon his wife said , ' O Cogia , do you stay a little .
The inspecting matrons have been for the girl .
I will now go to them , and will give the necessary character , so that they will take our daughter , being satisfied with what I say . '
Quoth the Cogia Efendi , ' No , no , wife , do not open your mouth .
I have now learnt various praises fitted for her .
I will go and tell them .
Do you see how they will be pleased with them . '
So he went to the inspecting matrons , who , as soon as they saw him , said , ' O Cogia Efendi , what have you to do with us matrons ?
Get you gone , and let the girl 's mother come . '
Said the Cogia Efendi , ' It is not the duty of the girl 's mother to give information with respect to any talents which the girl may possess .
Whatever questions you may have to ask with respect to the talents we may have observed , do you ask of me . '
Quoth the matrons , ' Let us hear you dilate a little on her talents . '
' Ladies , ' said the Cogia , ' if the girl is not six months gone with child , she is my property . '
The ladies on hearing this looked at each other , and getting up went away .
Said the Cogia 's wife , ' O Cogia , why did you drive the matrons away by using such words to them ? '
' Do n't you fear , wife , ' said the Cogia , ' if they go through the whole country they will not find a girl of this description ; so let them go and come back .
But to tell you the truth , if I had not praised the cow in this manner , I should have found no purchaser for her . '
One day Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi , as he was winding the muslin of his turban , perceived that it was not long enough ; he again tried all he could to bring it to a point , but in vain .
The Cogia in great distress took the muslin , and going to the public mart , put it up to auction .
Whilst it was being bid for , a person came and bought it .
Whereupon the Cogia going softly up to him , said , ' Brother , do n't take that thick thing ; it is too short for a turban ; you ca n't bring it to a point . '
One day an individual coming to the Cogia said , ' Something for my good news , Cogia Efendi .
You have a son born to you . '
' If I have a son born to me , ' said the Cogia , ' I owe thanks to God , but what do I owe to you ? '
One day a man coming to the Cogia asked him for the loan of his ass .
' Stay here , ' said the Cogia , ' whilst I go and consult the animal .
If the ass is willing to be lent , I will let you have him . '
Thereupon he went in , and after staying for a time came out and said , ' The ass is not willing , and has said to me , " If you lend me to others I shall overhear all the evil things that they say of your wife . " '
One day the Cogia , mounting his ass , set off for his garden ; on the road , wanting to make water , he took off his woollen vest , and placing it on the pack - saddle of his ass , he went aside .
A thief coming up took the woollen vest and ran away with it .
The Cogia returning saw that the vest was gone ; whereupon taking the pack - saddle from the back of the ass , he put it upon his own shoulders , and giving the ass a cut with his whip , he said , ' You lost my vest , so I take your saddle . '
One day Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi , mounting his ass , again set out ; on the way , wanting to make water , he again laid his vest upon the ass , and went aside .
A person who had his eye upon him , instantly seized the vest and ran away ; just at that time the ass began to bray .
The Cogia hearing him , shouted out , ' The ass brays : the ass cries - no good sign . '
The person , however , hearing the braying and the shouting , cast the vest upon the ground and made his escape .
One day Cogia Efendi , having lost his ass , inquired of a certain individual whether he had seen him .
' I saw him , ' said the individual , ' in a certain town , officiating as Cadi . '
' You say true , ' said the Cogia , ' I knew he would be a Cadi , for I observed when I taught him the principles of philosophy , that his ears were not sewed up . '
One day Nasr Eddin Efendi went to the mountain to cut wood ; after he had cut the wood he loaded his ass , and began to drive him home .
The Efendi 's ass , however , would hardly move .
A person coming up , said , ' Put a little sal ammoniac into the - of the ass . '
The Cogia finding a little sal ammoniac , put it in ; whereupon the ass began to run so quickly that the Cogia was left far behind .
' I would fain see the cause of this , ' said the Cogia , and clapped a little of the sal ammoniac to his own - .
No sooner had he done so than the Cogia 's posterior began to swell , and he set off running so quickly that he soon got before the ass , and ran straight home , but not being able to contain himself in the house , he ran about it , and observing his wife , he said , ' O wife , whenever you wish me to get me on , do you stick a little sal ammoniac in my - . '
One day a man came to the house of the Cogia and asked him to lend him his ass .
' He is not at home , ' replied the Cogia .
But it so happened that the ass began to bray within .
' O Cogia Efendi , ' said the man , ' you say that the ass is not at home , and there he is braying within . '
' What a strange fellow you are ! '
said the Cogia .
' You believe the ass , but will not believe a grey - bearded man like me . '
One day the Cogia said to his wife , ' O wife , how do you know when a man is dead ? '
' I know it by his hands and feet being cold , ' said she .
One day as the Cogia was going to the mountain for wood , he felt cold in his hands and feet ; whereupon he said , ' I am a dead man , ' and laid himself down at the foot of a tree .
Some wolves , however , coming up and beginning to devour his ass , the Cogia shouted to the wolves from the place where he was lying , ' The ass is dead , it seems , and not the master . '
One day as the Cogia was cutting wood in the mountain , a wolf , coming up to his ass , began to devour it ; but on seeing the Cogia , it took the ass and went away .
A man who saw what happened , cried out , ' There he goes ! '
Whereupon the Cogia said , ' Hallo , man : why do you cry out ?
You must not hinder a wolf who has dined from mounting . '
One day as the Cogia was conducting his ass to the market , the tail of the animal becoming draggled with mud , the Cogia cut it off and put it into a sack .
Arriving at the market , he put up the ass to auction ; and on a person crying out , ' What is the use of this tailless creature ? '
he said , ' Do n't you leave your tail in the desert when you come to market ? '
One day as the Cogia was coming from a distant place , his ass chanced to be very thirsty , when all of a sudden they arrived at the margin of a pool .
Unfortunately , however , the sides of the pool were very steep , and the ass of the Cogia , on seeing the water , not being able to restrain himself , ran forward to the pool .
Just as he was falling in , the frogs of the pool began to croak violently ; their voices frightening the ass , he ran back .
The Cogia , however , seized hold of him , and exclaiming , ' Bravo , ye birds of the pool ! '
he took out a handful of aspres , and flung them into the pool , saying , ' Here 's something for sweetmeats : take and eat . '
In the time of Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi , three priests , who showed themselves versed in every kind of learning , travelling through the world , at last came to the country of the Soldan Ala Eddin .
The Emperor invited them to accept the true faith ; whereupon the three said , ' Each one of us has a question to ask , and if you can give us an answer , we will adopt your religion . '
All agreed to this condition ; and Soldan Ala Eddin having assembled his ulemas and sheiks , not one of them was able to make any reply to the questions of the strangers .
The Soldan Ala Eddin was very much incensed and mortified , and exclaimed , ' So there is not one of the ulemas and sheiks in the countries beneath my jurisdiction who can answer these fellows . '
Whereupon one of the ulemas replied , ' Though none of us can answer these questions , perhaps Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi can . '
The Emperor , on hearing these words , gave orders to his Tartar messengers to go in quest of Nasr Eddin Efendi .
The Tartars , with all imaginable speed , went their way , and having found the Cogia , communicated to him the commands of the Sultan .
Nasr Eddin , that moment saddling his ass , took his staff in his hand , and mounting the animal , said to the Tartar , ' Lead the way and set off straight for the palace of Soldan Ala Eddin . '
On his arrival , he went into the presence of the Emperor , to whom he said , ' Salaam , ' and received the same salutation from the Sultan , who , pointing out a place to him , bade him sit down .
Said the Cogia to the Emperor , after wishing him a blessing , ' For what may it have pleased you to summon me ? '
Whereupon the Soldan Ala Eddin told him the whole circumstance .
The Cogia forthwith turning to the priests said , ' What are your questions ? '
Then one of the priests , coming forward , said , ' May it please your Efendiship , my question is this : " Where may the middle of the earth be ? " '
Thereupon the Cogia , instantly dismounting from his ass , pointed with his staff to the fore foot of the ass , saying , ' The middle of the earth is the spot on which my ass 's foot stands . '
' How do you know that ? '
said the priest .
' If you doubt my words , ' said the Cogia , ' take a measure and see whether it comes to more or less . '
Another of the priests coming forward said , ' How many stars are there in the face of the heaven above us ? '
Said the Cogia , ' As many hairs as there are upon my ass so many stars are there in the heaven . '
' How do you know ? '
said the priest .
' If you doubt , ' said the Cogia , ' come and count , and if there is any difference , say at once . '
' Have you counted , then , ' said the priest , ' the hairs upon your ass ? '
' And have you counted how many stars there are ? '
said the Cogia .
Then another priest coming forward said , ' If you can answer my question the whole of us will adopt your religion . '
' Speak , ' said the Cogia , ' let us hear it . '
' Tell me , O Cogia , ' said the priest , ' how many hairs there are in this beard of mine . '
' Just as many , ' said the Cogia , ' as there are hairs in my ass 's tail . '
' How do you know ? '
said the priest .
' Soul of mine , ' said the Cogia , ' if you do n't believe , come and count . '
The priest would not consent .
' If you will not consent , ' said the Cogia , ' come , let us pluck hair for hair from your beard and from the ass 's tail and see if they do n't tally . '
The priest , seeing that he had the worst of the argument , turned to the way of truth , and forthwith said to his companions , ' I embrace the faith of Islam , ' and acknowledged the unity of God .
The two others also with heart and soul embraced the true faith , and the whole three became servants and disciples of the Cogia .
Nasr Eddin Efendi one day placed three plums upon a great table and set out in order to carry them as a present to the Bey .
On the way the plums chancing to dance on this side and that the Cogia said , ' I will now eat you until I leave one to dance by itself . '
So the Cogia ate two of the plums , and carrying one upon the table , placed it before the Bey , who being very much delighted with the plum which the Cogia brought , presented him with a great deal of money .
The Cogia went home , and a few days after , taking a number of beetroots , set out again in order to carry them to the Bey .
As he was going along he met an individual , who said to the Cogia , ' To whom are you carrying those things ? '
' I am carrying them to the Bey , ' said the Cogia .
' If you were to carry him some figs instead , ' said the individual , ' he would like it better . '
The Cogia instantly went and procured a few pounds of figs , which he carried to the Bey , who ordered his attendants to fling them all at his head .
Some of the figs striking the Cogia 's head , he forthwith began to cry out , ' Thank God , thank God ! '
' How is this , Cogia ? '
said they .
' Why do you thank God ? '
' I was bringing a great quantity of beetroots , ' said the Cogia , ' but meeting an individual on the road , he advised me to bring these instead .
Now if I had brought beetroots , my head would have been broken . '
The Cogia going on another day to visit the Bey , the Bey took him out a - hunting , but mounted him on a good - for - nothing horse .
As they were hunting , it began to rain ; every one escaped by means of his horse , but the good - for - nothing horse would scarcely move .
The Cogia forthwith stripping himself naked , took his garments and sat down upon them .
No sooner was the rain over , than he got up , and having dressed himself , he went to the Bey .
Said the Bey , ' It is a wonder you escaped a wetting . '
Said the Cogia , ' I was mounted on a horse that was a great goer , he flew away with me so fast that I escaped the rain . '
The Bey believed every word that he said .
On another day the Bey again went out a - hunting , but he now rode that same horse himself , whilst the Cogia was mounted on another ; now it so pleased God that it again began to rain , every one escaped as fast as he could , but the Bey on the good - for - nothing horse was left behind , and at last reached home , creeping along like a crane .
He was very much incensed at what the Cogia had told him , and the next day addressed him in this manner : ' Was it fit and proper that you should tell me the lie you did , and cause me to be wet through by the rain which God sent ? '
Said the Cogia , ' Why are you angry with me ?
Why had you not sense enough to strip off your clothes as I did , and sit upon them , and when the rain was over , dress yourself and come here ? '
One day the Bey sent this message to the Cogia , ' Come , I intend to play the jerreed with you , for I wish to have a little jerreed playing . '
Now the Cogia had an old ox , which , saddling immediately , he mounted , and rode to the place where they played at the jerreed .
No sooner did the people see him than they fell to laughing , and the Bey said , ' O Cogia , why did you mount that ox , for it ca n't run ? '
' Ca n't it ? '
said the Cogia .
' I have seen it when it was a calf running so fast that no horse could overtake it . '
One day Tamerlank invited the Cogia to dine with him .
The Cogia accepted the invitation , and mounting his ass , taking the groom along with him , set out , saying , ' Now , Tamerlank , where may you be ? '
When he came to the Emperor , Timour Shah , pointing to a place , bade him sit down .
The Cogia , seeing that Timour Shah sat with one foot supported on a cushion , when he sat down , stretched out his own leg , and placed it upon a corner of the cushion .
Timour Shah being very much offended that the Cogia stretched out his leg as he did , said to himself , ' If I do so I have an excuse , and I am also a king ' ; and then said to the Cogia , ' When you mount your ass , what is the difference between you and him ? '
The Cogia replied , ' My Emperor , only this cushion divides us which is placed upon his back . '
The Shah , perceiving the taunt , was very much incensed , and determined to mortify the Cogia .
The food being brought , they began to eat , and presently Timour , without any cause , sneezed in the Cogia 's face .
The Cogia , when he saw Tamerlank do this , said , ' My Emperor , is it not ill manners to do so ? '
' It is not in our country , ' said Tamerlank .
Forthwith the Cogia let a - ; and when Tamerlank said , ' Is not that ill manners ? '
he replied , ' It is not reckoned so in our country . '
The repast being over , the sherbet was brought ; and then the Cogia , getting up , set off on his way home .
' Why did you break wind in the presence of Timour ? '
said the groom .
Answered the Cogia , ' When the Imam - the assembly breaks up . '
One day the Cogia roasted a goose , and set out in order to carry it to the Emperor .
On the way , feeling very hungry , he cut off one leg and ate it .
Coming into the presence of the Emperor , he placed the goose before him .
On seeing it , Tamerlank said to himself , ' The Cogia is making game of me , ' and was very angry , and demanded , ' How happens it that this goose has but one foot ? '
Said the Cogia , ' In our country all the geese have only one foot .
If you disbelieve me , look at the geese by the side of that fountain . '
Now at that time there was a flock of geese by the rim of the fountain , all of whom were standing on one leg .
Timour instantly ordered that all the drummers should at once play up ; the drummers began to strike with their sticks , and forthwith all the geese stood on both legs .
On Timour saying , ' Do n't you see that they have two legs ? '
the Cogia replied , ' If you keep up that drumming you yourself will presently have four . '
Cogia Efendi , now at rest with God , having been made Cadi , two individuals came before him , one of whom said , ' This fellow nearly bit my ear off . '
The other said , ' Not so : I did not bite it , but he bit his own ear . '
The Cogia said , ' Come again in a little time and I will give you an answer . '
The men went away , and the Cogia , going into a private place , seized hold of his ear .
' I ca n't bite it , ' said he .
Then trying to rise from the ground , on which he had seated himself , he fell back and broke a part of his head .
Forthwith wrapping a piece of cloth round his head , he went back and sat in his place .
The two men coming and asking for his decision , the Cogia said , ' No man can bite his own ear ; but , if he tries , may fall down and break his head . '
Once as the Cogia was lying in bed , at midnight a noise was heard in the street before the door .
Said the Cogia to his wife , ' Get up and light a candle , and I will go and see . '
' You had better stay within , ' said his wife .
But the Cogia , without heeding his wife , put the counterpane on his shoulders and went out .
A fellow perceiving him , instantly snatched the counterpane from off his shoulders and ran away .
The Cogia , shivering with cold , went in again ; and when his wife asked him the cause of the noise , he said , ' It was on account of our counterpane : when they got that the noise ceased at once . '
One day the Cogia 's wife said to him , ' Nurse this child for a little time , for I have a little business to see after . '
The Cogia , taking the child , sat with him upon his lap .
Presently , however , the child p - upon the Cogia ; whereupon the Cogia , getting up , p - over the child , from head to foot .
His wife coming , said , ' O Cogia , why have you acted in this manner ? '
' I would have - over him , ' said the Cogia , ' if he had done so over me . '
One day the Cogia 's wife , having washed the Cogia 's kaftan , hung it upon a tree to dry ; the Cogia going out saw , as he supposed , a man standing in the tree with his arms stretched out .
Says the Cogia to his wife , ' O wife , go and fetch me my bow and arrow . '
His wife fetched and brought them to him ; the Cogia taking an arrow , shot it and pierced the kaftan and stretched it on the ground ; then returning , he made fast his door and lay down to sleep .
Going out in the morning he saw that what he had shot was his own kaftan ; thereupon , sitting down , he cried aloud , ' O God , be thanked ; if I had been in it I should have certainly been killed . '
One day the Cogia , going to the College , mounted into the car , in the rear of the Moolahs .
Said the Moolahs , ' O Cogia , why did you mount backwards ? '
' If I got in straightways , ' said the Cogia , ' you would be at my back .
If you went before me your backs would be in my face , therefore I mounted in this manner . '
One night as the Cogia was lying in his bed he perceived a thief moving upon the housetop .
Now , the Cogia 's wife was lying at his side , and he said to her , ' O wife , last night wishing to enter the house , I repeated this prayer and descended the chimney on the rays of the moon . '
The thief above heard these words of the Cogia , and after a little time , repeating the prayer which the Cogia had repeated , essayed to go down the chimney upon the rays of the moon , but tumbled down headlong .
The Cogia , who was not yet sleep , rising in haste , seized the thief by the collar and cried out , ' O wife , be quick and light a candle , for I have caught a thief ! '
hereupon the thief exclaimed humorously , ' O Cogia Efendi , do n't be in a hurry ; the virtue in that prayer being in me was rather too much for me , and so I tumbled down here . '
Nasr Eddin Efendi had an old ox which had exceedingly great horns , and so far apart , that it was possible for a person to sit between them .
Every time that the ox drew nigh the Cogia was in the habit of saying to himself , ' How I should like to sit between his horns , ' and calculating as to the possibility of doing so .
One day the ox came and laid himself down before the house .
Cries the Cogia , ' Now is my time ! '
and mounting , he took his seat betwixt the ox 's two horns .
Presently , however , the ox , rising upon his legs , flung the Cogia upon the ground , where he lay for some time quite senseless .
His wife coming and seeing him lying motionless , began to lament .
After some time , the Cogia , recovering a little , on seeing his wife weeping by his side , exclaimed , ' O wife , do not weep , I have suffered a great deal , but I have had my desire . '
One day a thief got into the Cogia 's house .
Cries his wife , ' O Cogia , there is a thief in the house . '
' Do n't make any disturbance , ' says the Cogia .
' I wish to God that he may find something , so that I may take it from him . '
One day the Cogia 's wife said to him , ' Go and lie down yonder , a little way off . '
The Cogia , getting up , forthwith took his shoes in his hand , and walked during two days ; at the end of which , meeting a man , he said , ' Go and ask my wife whether I have gone far enough , or must go yet farther . '
One night as the Cogia was lying with his wife , he said , ' O wife , if you love me , get up and light a candle , that I may write down a verse which has come into my head . '
His wife , getting up , lighted the candle , and brought him pen and inkstand .
The Cogia wrote , and his wife said , ' O Efendi of my soul , wo n't you read to me what you have written ? '
Whereupon the Cogia read , ' Amongst the green leaves methinks I see a black hen go with a red bill . '
One day the Cogia being ill , a number of women came to inquire about his health .
One of the women said , ' God knows whether you will die ; but if you do , what shall we say when we lament over you ? '
' Say this , ' said the Cogia , ' when you lament over me , " Notwithstanding all he did , he could never understand everything . " '
Cogia Efendi , every time he returned to his house , was in the habit of bringing a piece of liver , which his wife always gave to a common woman , placing before the Cogia leavened patties to eat when he came home in the evening .
One day the Cogia said , ' O wife , every day I bring home a liver : where do they all go to ? '
' The cat runs away with all of them , ' replied the wife .
Thereupon the Cogia getting up , put his hatchet in the trunk and locked it up .
Says his wife to the Cogia , ' For fear of whom do you lock up the hatchet ? '
' For fear of the cat , ' replied the Cogia .
' What should the cat do with the hatchet ? '
said the wife .
' Why , ' replied the Cogia , ' as he takes a fancy to the liver , which costs two aspres , is it not likely that he will take a fancy to the hatchet , which costs four ? '
One day the wife of the Cogia wanted to go to the bath .
Now the Cogia had a little money which he kept in a corner hid from his wife .
As she went out of the door she looked back .
' Stay , ' said the Cogia , ' I am just dead , and here 's a little money I have left behind me . '
One day the Cogia and his wife went to the side of a pool , in order to wash their linen .
As they were making a beginning with their linen by beating it upon the plain and using soap to it , a raven coming seized the soap and flew away with it .
' O Cogia , ' shrieked the wife , ' the raven has taken away the soap . '
' Say nothing , wife , ' said the Cogia , ' it was dirty enough after our using it ; let him take it and wash it . '
One day the Cogia and his wife made an agreement to copulate every Friday night .
The wife was perfectly satisfied with the arrangement ; ' But , ' said the Cogia , ' let us agree upon a sign by which I may know that the time for doing my duty is come . '
The wife said , ' When Friday night is come I will hang your turban above the alcove ; you will know by that that it is Friday night . '
' Good , good ! '
said the Cogia .
One night , however , which was not Friday night , the Cogia 's wife being desirous for copulation , as soon as she arose to go to bed , placed the Cogia 's turban above the alcove .
Said the Cogia , ' O wife , this is not Friday night ! '
' It is Friday night , ' said the wife .
Whereupon the Cogia said , ' O wife , in this house either let Friday night keep the reckoning , or let me . '
One day the Cogia 's wife went with the wife of a neighbour to wash at a pool .
It happened that the Governor of the country , who was taking a walk , came up and looked at them .
Said the wife of the Cogia , ' Pray , man , what are you looking at ? '
' Who is that woman ? '
said the Governor to some one who was standing by .
' She is the wife of Cogia Nasr Eddin Efendi , ' replied the individual .
On the following day the Governor , sending for the Cogia , said to him , ' Is such and such a woman your wife ? '
' Yes , ' said the Cogia , ' she is my wife . '
Said the Governor , ' Go and bring her to me . '
' What do you want with her ? '
said the Cogia .
' I have a question to ask her , ' said the Governor .
' Do you only tell me the question , ' said the Cogia , ' and I will go and put it to her . '
One day some people said to the Cogia 's son , ' What is padligean ? '
' It is a little deaf thing which walks without opening its eyes , ' said the child .
' It did not know that of itself : I taught it , ' said the Cogia .
One day a chariot departed for the Castle of Siouri .
The Cogia also set off for that place , running quite naked .
The drivers , on arriving at the town , having given information of the Cogia 's coming , all the people came out to meet him , who , on seeing him quite naked , said , ' O Cogia Efendi , why do you come in this manner ? '
' From the love I bore you , ' said the Cogia .
' I was in such a hurry in dressing , that I forgot my clothes . '
The Cogia had a scalt head .
Once he went to the barber , had his head shaved , paid an aspre , and went away .
The following week he went again , was shaved , and had a looking - glass placed before him .
' As the half of my head is scalt , ' said the Cogia , ' is not an aspre for shaving it too much by half ? '
One day the Cogia went with some men a - fishing .
They cast the net into the sea , and the Cogia cast himself into the net .
' O Cogia , ' said they , ' what are you about ? '
' I imagined myself a fish , ' said the Cogia .
One day the boys of the town said to one another , ' Come , let us get the Cogia to climb a tree , and we will steal away his sandals . '
The boys coming to the foot of a tree stopped , and said , ' No one can climb this tree . '
The Cogia coming up , said , ' I can climb it . '
' No , you ca n't , ' said they .
Forthwith the Cogia tied the skirts of his robe about his loins and put his sandals in his bosom .
' O Cogia Efendi , ' said the boys , ' what will you do with your slippers in the tree ? '
Said the Cogia , ' If I find a road when I am above there , I shall have my slippers ready to put on . '
One day a man coming from the country brought the Cogia a hare .
The Cogia , with much politeness and civility , gave him some broth to eat .
At the end of a week he came again ; but the Cogia appearing to have forgot him , said , ' Who may you be ? '
' I am the person who brought the hare , ' said the man ; whereupon the Cogia again entertained him .
After some days a number of men made their appearance and wanted to be entertained .
' Who may you be ? '
said the Cogia .
' We are the neighbours of the man who brought you the hare , ' said they .
A few days after a whole troop of men arriving , the Cogia asked them who they were ?
' We are the neighbours of the neighbours of the man who brought the hare , ' said they .
' You are quite welcome , ' said the Cogia , and placed before them a large jar of pure water ; on seeing which they said , ' What is this ? '
' The water of the water of the hare is what it is , ' said the Cogia .
One day the Cogia , whilst labouring in the field , found a tortoise , and , seizing hold of it , tied a string round its neck and hung it to his spade .
The tortoise beginning to cry and squeal , ' It is of no use crying , ' said the Cogia , ' you must now learn to work . '
One day the Cogia , being on the point of death , called his neighbours about him .
The neighbours coming , began to eat and make merry , without saying to the Cogia , ' Come and partake . '
The Cogia incensed , got up and went out .
After a little time they sought for the Cogia , and could not find him ; so dispersing themselves about , they went after him , and at last found him .
' Ho , Cogia , ' said they , ' come , where have you got to ? '
Said the Cogia , ' He who this day supplies the bridal meats has , surely , a right to go into the bridal chamber . '
One day the Cogia , being out on a journey , encamped along with a caravan , and tied up his horse along with the others .
When it was morning the Cogia could not find his horse amongst the rest , not knowing how to distinguish it ; forthwith taking a bow and arrow in his hand , he said , ' Men , men , I have lost my horse . '
Every one laughing , took his own horse ; and the Cogia looking , saw a horse which he instantly knew to be his own .
Forthwith placing his right foot in the stirrup , he mounted the horse , so that his face looked to the horse 's tail .
' O Cogia , ' said they , ' why do you mount the horse the wrong way ? '
' It is not my fault , ' said he , ' but the horse 's , for the horse is left - handed . '
The Cogia had a disciple , who was an Abyssinian , black , of the name of Hamet .
One day Hamet having inadvertently broken a bottle of ink over the Cogia , ' What is this , Cogia ? '
said the others .
' Do n't you think a few good kicks would be a useful lesson to our Hamet ? '
' Let him be .
He got into a sweat by running , ' said the Cogia , ' and melted over me . '
One day the Cogia having mounted up into the pulpit , said , ' O Mussulmen , I have a piece of advice to give you .
If you have sons , take care that you do not give them the name of Eiioub ( Job ) . '
' Why , O Cogia ? '
cried the people .
' Lest the quality should accompany the name , ' he replied , ' and they should all become ips ( ropes ) . '
One day as the Cogia was performing ablution , he found he had not sufficient water .
When the hour of prayer came on , he stood like a goose on one foot .
' O Cogia Efendi , ' said the people , ' why do you do so ? '
' Because , ' said the Cogia , ' this foot has not performed ablution . '
One day a man arriving , became the guest of the Cogia .
It happened at night , some time after they had lain down , that the light went out .
' O Cogia Efendi , ' said the guest , ' the taper is gone out .
But there is a taper on your right side ; pray bring it , and let us light it . '
' Surely you must be a fool , ' said the Cogia .
' How should I know my right side in the dark ? '
One day they said to the Cogia , ' Pray what may be your horoscope ? '
Said the Cogia , ' I was born under the sign of the He - goat . '
' O Cogia , ' said they , ' there is no such sign as the He - goat . '
Said the Cogia , ' When I was a child my mother had my horoscope taken , and at that time the Kid was in the ascension . '
' O Cogia , ' said they , ' that 's all right ; but a kid is one thing and a he - goat is another . '
Said the Cogia , ' O you simpletons !
Forty or fifty years have passed since then .
Must not the kid have become an old goat ? '
One day whilst the Cogia was holding an oration at the Castle of Siouri , he was contradicted by the Soubashi or Superintendent .
Shortly after , it happened that the Soubashi died and was buried ; whereupon they said , ' Come , Efendi , preach a sermon over him . '
' You must find some one else , ' said the Cogia .
' He wo n't mind my words , for he always contradicts me . '
One day two men were sitting together in a shop before their houses , engaged in discourse .
Their houses abutted upon each other , and it so happened that a dog came and deposited his dirt on the ground in the middle of the street before their houses .
Said one , ' It is nigh your house . '
' Nay , my good friend , ' said the other , ' it is nearest to your house , so you must go and take it up . '
So they got into a dispute ; and not being able to settle it , they went before the Tribunal .
Now it happened that the Cogia had come that day to pay a visit to the Cadi , and sat beside him .
Said the Cadi to the Cogia , ' Do you decide upon their dispute . '
Thereupon the Cogia said to them , ' Is not that street a public way ? '
' It is , ' said they .
' Then , ' said he , ' one half of the perfumery belongs to you two and the other half to the Cadi . '
One day the Cogia put a yoke upon a calf which he had ; the calf ran here and there .
Forthwith the Cogia , seizing a stick , fell to banging his ox .
' O Cogia , ' said the people , ' why do you beat the ox ; how can he be in fault ? '
' All the fault is his , ' said the Cogia , ' if he had taught him the calf would have known how to turn . '
One day as the Cogia was travelling in the Derbend he met a shepherd .
Said the shepherd to the Cogia , ' Art thou a faquir ? '
' Yes , ' said the Cogia .
Said the shepherd , ' See these seven men who are lying here , they were men like you whom I killed because they could not answer questions which I asked .
Now , in the first place let us come to an understanding ; if you can answer my questions let us hold discourse , if not , let us say nothing . '
Says the Cogia , ' What may your questions be ? '
Said the shepherd , ' The moon , when it is new , is small , afterwards it increases , until it looks like a wheel ; after the fifteenth , it diminishes , and does not remain ; then again , there is a little one , of the size of Hilal , which does remain .
Now what becomes of the old moons ? '
Says the Cogia , ' How is it that you do n't know a thing like that ?
They take those old moons and make lightning of them ; have you not seen them when the heaven thunders , glittering like so many swords ? '
' Bravo , Faquir , ' said the shepherd .
' Well art thou acquainted with the matter , I had come to the same conclusion myself . '
Nasr Eddin Efendi , now with God , had a sum of money .
One day , when all was quiet in the house , he dug in the earth and buried it ; then going to the door he looked out and said , ' I 'll suppose myself a thief , and that I find this , and forthwith take it away and bury it in another place , and my heart is no more troubled about it . '
Thus saying , he came and took up his treasure .
Now before the house there was a height , and the Cogia going to the garden of the house , cut a pole , and putting the money in a sack , tied the sack to the top of the pole , and bringing the pole , stuck it up on the top of the height ; then going down he looked upwards and said , ' Unless a man is a bird he can not fly up to that , I have surely chosen a good place , ' and having said this , he went away .
Now it happened that a thief saw all that Cogia did , and no sooner was the Cogia gone , than he climbed up the height and took down the money , and putting upon the top of the pole a quantity of bullock 's dung , he stuck up the pole again and went his way .
Some time afterwards the Cogia being in need of money , came to the foot of the pole and saw that all the money was gone , and that a quantity of bullock 's dung was on the pole .
Said he , ' I said that no man could mount this pole and take away the money , but how bullock 's dung should get to the top of the pole is a very strange matter indeed .
So , ' said the Cogia , ' may the Lord have mercy upon him . '
One day as the Cogia was going to his house , he met a number of students , and said to them , ' Gentlemen , pray this night come to our house and taste a sup of the old father 's broth . '
' Very good , ' said the students , and following the Cogia , came to the house .
' Pray enter , ' said he , and brought them into the house ; then going up to where his wife was , ' O wife , ' said he , ' I have brought some travellers that we may give them a cup of broth . '
' O master , ' said his wife , ' is there oil in the house or rice , or have you brought any that you wish to have broth ? '
' Bless me , ' said the Cogia , ' give me the broth pan , ' and snatching it up , he forthwith ran to where the students were , and exclaimed , ' Pray , pardon me , gentlemen , but had there been oil or rice in our house , this is the pan in which I would have served the broth up to you . '
One day the Cogia going into the kitchen of his house , laid himself down ; presently the Cogia 's daughter entering into the kitchen to fetch something , saw her father lying hidden behind a cask .
' O my lord and father , what do you do here ? '
said she .
' What could I better do to get out of your mother 's way than come into this foreign country , ' said the Cogia .
One day when the Cogia was in his chamber , a man knocked at the door of the house .
' What do you want ? '
said the Cogia from above .
' Come down , ' said the man , who was a beggar .
The Cogia forthwith came down and said , ' What do you want ? '
' I want your charity , ' said the man .
' Come upstairs , ' said the Cogia .
When the beggar had come up , the Cogia said , ' God help you . '
' O master , ' said the other , ' why did you not say so below ? '
Said the Cogia , ' When I was above stairs , why did you bring me down . '
Once upon a time the wife of the Cogia was in labour ; one day , two days , she sat upon the chair but could not bring forth ; the women who attended her cried from the interior apartment to the Cogia : ' O master , do you know no prayer by means of which the child may be brought into the world ? '
' I know a specific , ' said the Cogia , and forthwith running to a grocer 's shop he procured some walnuts , and bringing them he said , ' Make way , ' and going into the room he spread the walnuts under the chair , and said : ' Now that the child sees the walnuts he will come out to play with them . '
One day the Cogia 's wife , in order to plague the Cogia , boiled some broth exceedingly hot , brought it into the room and placed it on the table .
The wife then , forgetting that it was hot , took a spoon and put some into her mouth , and , scalding herself , began to shed tears .
' O wife , ' said the Cogia , ' what is the matter with you ; is the broth hot ? '
' Dear Efendi , ' said the wife , ' my mother , who is now dead , loved broth very much ; I thought of that , and wept on her account . '
The Cogia thinking that what she said was truth , took a spoonful of the broth , and burning his mouth began to cry and bellow .
' What is the matter with you ? '
said his wife ; ' why do you cry ? '
Said the Cogia , ' You cry because your mother is gone , but I cry because her daughter is here . '
One day the Cogia 's wife went to the hall of preaching ; and , after listening to the sermon , came home .
Said the Cogia , ' O wife , what did the preacher say ? '
' He said , ' replied the wife , ' that if any one has a night 's copulation with his lawful wife the Almighty God will build for him a mansion in paradise . '
After they had gone to bed the Cogia said , ' Come , let us build a house in paradise . '
Thereupon they copulated .
Shortly afterwards the wife said , ' O Cogia , you have built a house for yourself , pray now build a house for me ! '
Said the Cogia , ' I could easily build a house for you , but I fear that I should have to build houses for your father and mother , and not only for them , but for all your family and relations , so that the Master Builder above would become angry .
Come , one house must suffice for us two . '
One day the Cogia met a company of young students and said unto them , ' Pray come along with me to our house . '
So he led them to the door of the house and then said , ' Pray stay here a little , whilst I go in . '
Then going in he said , ' O wife , pray go and send those people away . '
Whereupon the wife went and said , ' The Cogia is not come home . '
Said the students , ' What do you mean by talking so ?
The Cogia came hither in our company . '
' He did not come , ' said the wife .
' But he did , ' said the students , and made a great outcry .
The Cogia hearing a noise from above , thrust his head out of the window , exclaiming , ' Holloa , my men : what is all this dispute for ?
You must know that this house has two doors .
No sooner did I come in by one than I left the house by the other . '
One day the son of the Cogia said , ' O Father , I know that I was begotten by you . '
His mother becoming very angry , said , ' What nonsense is the brat talking that he calls himself the son of a whore ? '
Said the Cogia , ' O wife , do n't be angry , he is a wise son if he knows what he says he does . '
Once on a time there was a drunken Governor of Siouri Castle .
It happened one day that he lay in a state of drunkenness in the garden ; and the Cogia taking a walk in the garden with Amad , came up and found him lying drunk and insensible .
The Cogia instantly stripped him of his feradje or upper coat , and putting it on his own back , walked away .
On the other hand , the Governor , on getting up , saw that he had lost his feradje , and going to his officers gave them the following command , ' Whomsoever you find with my feradje upon him , lay hold on and bring him before me . '
The officials seeing the feradje on the back of the Cogia , made him their prisoner , and brought him before the Governor , who said to him , ' Ho , Cogia , where did you find that feradje ? '
' As I was taking a walk with Amad , ' said the Cogia , ' we saw a fellow lying drunk ; whereupon Amad twice uncovered his breech , and I , taking off his feradje , went away with it .
If it is yours , pray take it . '
' Oh no , it does not belong to me , ' said the Governor .
One day the Cogia having lain down to sleep on the bank of a river imagined himself dead .
An individual coming up said , ' I wonder where one could cross this water . '
Said the Cogia , ' When I was alive I crossed over here , but now I ca n't tell you where you should cross . '
One day a Persian barber was shaving the Cogia 's head .
At every stroke of his razor he cut his head , and to every place which he cut he applied a piece of cotton .
Said the Cogia to the barber , ' My good fellow , you had better sow half of my head with cotton and let me sow the other half with flax . '
One time the Cogia went to the well to draw water , but seeing the face of the moon reflected in the well , he exclaimed , ' The moon has fallen into the well , I must pull it out . '
Then going home , he took a rope and hook , and returning , cast it into the well , where the hook became fastened against a stone .
The Cogia , exerting all his might , pulled at the rope , once , twice , but at the second pulling the rope snapped , and he fell upon his back , and looking up into the heaven , saw the moon , whereupon he exclaimed , ' O praise and glory , I have suffered much pain , but the moon has got to its place again . '
One day the Cogia going into a person 's garden climbed up into an apricot - tree and began to eat the apricots .
The master coming said , ' Cogia , what are you doing here ? '
' Dear me , ' said the Cogia , ' do n't you see that I am a nightingale sitting in the apricot - tree ? '
Said the gardener , ' Let me hear you sing . '
The Cogia began to warble .
Whereupon the other fell to laughing , and said , ' Do you call that singing ? '
' I am a Persian nightingale , ' said the Cogia , ' and Persian nightingales sing in this manner . '
The Cogia , now with God , was master of all learning , and perfect in every art .
If some people should now say , ' We were in hope of receiving instruction from his sayings , but have read nothing but the ravings of madness ' ; and if they should require some other book of his utterances , we must tell them that he uttered nothing beyond what is noted here .
Some people say that , whilst uttering what seemed madness , he was , in reality , divinely inspired , and that it was not madness but wisdom that he uttered .
The mercy of God be upon him , mercy without bounds .
We have said that there are many and strange shadows , memories surviving from dim pasts , in this FANTASTIC UNIVERSE of ours .
Poul Anderson turns to a legend from the Northern countries , countries where even today the pagan past seems only like yesterday , and tells the story of Cappen Varra , who came to Norren a long , long time ago .
the valor of cappen varra by ... POUL ANDERSON " Let little Cappen go , " they shouted .
" Maybe he can sing the trolls to sleep - " The wind came from the north with sleet on its back .
Raw shuddering gusts whipped the sea till the ship lurched and men felt driven spindrift stinging their faces .
Beyond the rail there was winter night , a moving blackness where the waves rushed and clamored ; straining into the great dark , men sensed only the bitter salt of sea - scud , the nettle of sleet and the lash of wind .
Cappen lost his footing as the ship heaved beneath him , his hands were yanked from the icy rail and he went stumbling to the deck .
The bilge water was new coldness on his drenched clothes .
He struggled back to his feet , leaning on a rower 's bench and wishing miserably that his quaking stomach had more to lose .
But he had already chucked his share of stockfish and hardtack , to the laughter of Svearek 's men , when the gale started .
Numb fingers groped anxiously for the harp on his back .
It still seemed intact in its leather case .
He did n't care about the sodden wadmal breeks and tunic that hung around his skin .
The sooner they rotted off him , the better .
The thought of the silks and linens of Croy was a sigh in him .
Why had he come to Norren ?
A gigantic form , vague in the whistling dark , loomed beside him and gave him a steadying hand .
He could barely hear the blond giant 's bull tones : " Ha , easy there , lad .
Methinks the sea horse road is too rough for yer feet . "
" Ulp , " said Cappen .
His slim body huddled on the bench , too miserable to care .
The sleet pattered against his shoulders and the spray congealed in his red hair .
Torbek of Norren squinted into the night .
It made his leathery face a mesh of wrinkles .
" A bitter feast Yolner we hold , " he said .
" ' Twas a madness of the king 's , that he would guest with his brother across the water .
Now the other ships are blown from us and the fire is drenched out and we lie alone in the Wolf 's Throat . "
Wind piped shrill in the rigging .
Cappen could just see the longboat 's single mast reeling against the sky .
The ice on the shrouds made it a pale pyramid .
Ice everywhere , thick on the rails and benches , sheathing the dragon head and the carved stern - post , the ship rolling and staggering under the great march of waves , men bailing and bailing in the half - frozen bilge to keep her afloat , and too much wind for sail or oars .
Yes - a cold feast !
" But then , Svearek has been strange since the troll took his daughter , three years ago , " went on Torbek .
He shivered in a way the winter had not caused .
" Never does he smile , and his once open hand grasps tight about the silver and his men have poor reward and no thanks .
Yes , strange - " His small frost - blue eyes shifted to Cappen Varra , and the unspoken thought ran on beneath them : Strange , even , that he likes you , the wandering bard from the south .
Strange , that he will have you in his hall when you can not sing as his men would like .
Cappen did not care to defend himself .
He had drifted up toward the northern barbarians with the idea that they would well reward a minstrel who could offer them something more than their own crude chants .
It had been a mistake ; they did n't care for roundels or sestinas , they yawned at the thought of roses white and red under the moon of Caronne , a moon less fair than my lady 's eyes .
Nor did a man of Croy have the size and strength to compel their respect ; Cappen 's light blade flickered swiftly enough so that no one cared to fight him , but he lacked the power of sheer bulk .
Svearek alone had enjoyed hearing him sing , but he was niggardly and his brawling thorp was an endless boredom to a man used to the courts of southern princes .
If he had but had the manhood to leave - But he had delayed , because of a lusty peasant wench and a hope that Svearek 's coffers would open wider ; and now he was dragged along over the Wolf 's Throat to a midwinter feast which would have to be celebrated on the sea .
" Had we but fire - " Torbek thrust his hands inside his cloak , trying to warm them a little .
The ship rolled till she was almost on her beam ends ; Torbek braced himself with practiced feet , but Cappen went into the bilge again .
He sprawled there for a while , his bruised body refusing movement .
A weary sailor with a bucket glared at him through dripping hair .
His shout was dim under the hoot and skirl of wind : " If ye like it so well down here , then help us bail ! "
" ' Tis not yet my turn , " groaned Cappen , and got slowly up .
The wave which had nearly swamped them had put out the ship 's fire and drenched the wood beyond hope of lighting a new one .
It was cold fish and sea - sodden hardtack till they saw land again - if they ever did .
As Cappen raised himself on the leeward side , he thought he saw something gleam , far out across the wrathful night .
A wavering red spark - He brushed a stiffened hand across his eyes , wondering if the madness of wind and water had struck through into his own skull .
A gust of sleet hid it again .
But - He fumbled his way aft between the benches .
Huddled figures cursed him wearily as he stepped on them .
The ship shook herself , rolled along the edge of a boiling black trough , and slid down into it ; for an instant , the white teeth of combers grinned above her rail , and Cappen waited for an end to all things .
Then she mounted them again , somehow , and wallowed toward another valley .
King Svearek had the steering oar and was trying to hold the longboat into the wind .
He had stood there since sundown , huge and untiring , legs braced and the bucking wood cradled in his arms .
More than human he seemed , there under the icicle loom of the stern - post , his gray hair and beard rigid with ice .
Beneath the horned helmet , the strong moody face turned right and left , peering into the darkness .
Cappen felt smaller than usual when he approached the steersman .
He leaned close to the king , shouting against the blast of winter : " My lord , did I not see firelight ? "
" Aye .
I spied it an hour ago , " grunted the king .
" Been trying to steer us a little closer to it . "
Cappen nodded , too sick and weary to feel reproved .
" What is it ? "
" Some island - there are many in this stretch of water - now shut up ! "
Cappen crouched down under the rail and waited .
The lonely red gleam seemed nearer when he looked again .
Svearek 's tones were lifting in a roar that hammered through the gale from end to end of the ship : " Hither !
Come hither to me , all men not working ! "
Slowly , they groped to him , great shadowy forms in wool and leather , bulking over Cappen like storm - gods .
Svearek nodded toward the flickering glow .
" One of the islands , somebody must be living there .
I can not bring the ship closer for fear of surf , but one of ye should be able to take the boat thither and fetch us fire and dry wood .
Who will go ? "
They peered overside , and the uneasy movement that ran among them came from more than the roll and pitch of the deck underfoot .
Beorna the Bold spoke at last , it was hardly to be heard in the noisy dark : " I never knew of men living hereabouts .
It must be a lair of trolls . "
" Aye , so ... aye , they 'd but eat the man we sent ... out oars , let 's away from here though it cost our lives ... " The frightened mumble was low under the jeering wind .
Svearek 's face drew into a snarl .
" Are ye men or puling babes ?
Hack yer way through them , if they be trolls , but bring me fire ! "
" Even a she - troll is stronger than fifty men , my king , " cried Torbek .
" Well ye know that , when the monster woman broke through our guards three years ago and bore off Hildigund . "
" Enough ! "
It was a scream in Svearek 's throat .
" I 'll have yer craven heads for this , all of ye , if ye gang not to the isle ! "
They looked at each other , the big men of Norren , and their shoulders hunched bear - like .
It was Beorna who spoke it for them : " No , that ye will not .
We are free housecarls , who will fight for a leader - but not for a madman . "
Cappen drew back against the rail , trying to make himself small .
" All gods turn their faces from ye ! "
It was more than weariness and despair which glared in Svearek 's eyes , there was something of death in them .
" I 'll go myself , then ! "
" No , my king .
That we will not find ourselves in . "
" I am the king ! "
" And we are yer housecarls , sworn to defend ye - even from yerself .
Ye shall not go . "
The ship rolled again , so violently that they were all thrown to starboard .
Cappen landed on Torbek , who reached up to shove him aside and then closed one huge fist on his tunic .
" Here 's our man ! "
" Hi ! "
yelled Cappen .
Torbek hauled him roughly back to his feet .
" Ye can not row or bail yer fair share , " he growled , " nor do ye know the rigging or any skill of a sailor - ' tis time ye made yerself useful ! "
" Aye , aye - let little Cappen go - mayhap he can sing the trolls to sleep - " The laughter was hard and barking , edged with fear , and they all hemmed him in .
" My lord ! "
bleated the minstrel .
" I am your guest - " Svearek laughed unpleasantly , half crazily .
" Sing them a song , " he howled .
" Make a fine roun - whatever ye call it - to the troll - wife 's beauty .
And bring us some fire , little man , bring us a flame less hot than the love in yer breast for yer lady ! "
Teeth grinned through matted beards .
Someone hauled on the rope from which the ship 's small boat trailed , dragging it close .
" Go , ye scut ! "
A horny hand sent Cappen stumbling to the rail .
He cried out once again .
An ax lifted above his head .
Someone handed him his own slim sword , and for a wild moment he thought of fighting .
Useless - too many of them .
He buckled on the sword and spat at the men .
The wind tossed it back in his face , and they raved with laughter .
Over the side !
The boat rose to meet him , he landed in a heap on drenched planks and looked up into the shadowy faces of the northmen .
There was a sob in his throat as he found the seat and took out the oars .
An awkward pull sent him spinning from the ship , and then the night had swallowed it and he was alone .
Numbly , he bent to the task .
Unless he wanted to drown , there was no place to go but the island .
He was too weary and ill to be much afraid , and such fear as he had was all of the sea .
It could rise over him , gulp him down , the gray horses would gallop over him and the long weeds would wrap him when he rolled dead against some skerry .
The soft vales of Caronne and the roses in Croy 's gardens seemed like a dream .
There was only the roar and boom of the northern sea , hiss of sleet and spindrift , crazed scream of wind , he was alone as man had ever been and he would go down to the sharks alone .
The boat wallowed , but rode the waves better than the longship .
He grew dully aware that the storm was pushing him toward the island .
It was becoming visible , a deeper blackness harsh against the night .
He could not row much in the restless water , he shipped the oars and waited for the gale to capsize him and fill his mouth with the sea .
And when it gurgled in his throat , what would his last thought be ?
Should he dwell on the lovely image of Ydris in Seilles , she of the long bright hair and the singing voice ?
But then there had been the tomboy laughter of dark Falkny , he could not neglect her .
And there were memories of Elvanna in her castle by the lake , and Sirann of the Hundred Rings , and beauteous Vardry , and hawk - proud Lona , and - No , he could not do justice to any of them in the little time that remained .
What a pity it was !
No , wait , that unforgettable night in Nienne , the beauty which had whispered in his ear and drawn him close , the hair which had fallen like a silken tent about his cheeks ... ah , that had been the summit of his life , he would go down into darkness with her name on his lips ...
But hell !
What had her name been , now ?
Cappen Varra , minstrel of Croy , clung to the bench and sighed .
The great hollow voice of surf lifted about him , waves sheeted across the gunwale and the boat danced in madness .
Cappen groaned , huddling into the circle of his own arms and shaking with cold .
Swiftly , now , the end of all sunlight and laughter , the dark and lonely road which all men must tread .
O Ilwarra of Syr , Aedra in Tholis , could I but kiss you once more - Stones grated under the keel .
It was a shock like a sword going through him .
Cappen looked unbelievingly up .
The boat had drifted to land - he was alive !
It was like the sun in his breast .
Weariness fell from him , and he leaped overside , not feeling the chill of the shallows .
With a grunt , he heaved the boat up on the narrow strand and knotted the painter to a fang - like jut of reef .
Then he looked about him .
The island was small , utterly bare , a savage loom of rock rising out of the sea that growled at its feet and streamed off its shoulders .
He had come into a little cliff - walled bay , somewhat sheltered from the wind .
He was here !
For a moment he stood , running through all he had learned about the trolls which infested these northlands .
Hideous and soulless dwellers underground , they knew not old age ; a sword could hew them asunder , but before it reached their deep - seated life , their unhuman strength had plucked a man apart .
Then they ate him - Small wonder the northmen feared them .
Cappen threw back his head and laughed .
He had once done a service for a mighty wizard in the south , and his reward hung about his neck , a small silver amulet .
The wizard had told him that no supernatural being could harm anyone who carried a piece of silver .
The northmen said that a troll was powerless against a man who was not afraid ; but , of course , only to see one was to feel the heart turn to ice .
They did not know the value of silver , it seemed - odd that they should n't , but they did not .
Because Cappen Varra did , he had no reason to be afraid ; therefore he was doubly safe , and it was but a matter of talking the troll into giving him some fire .
If indeed there was a troll here , and not some harmless fisherman .
He whistled gaily , wrung some of the water from his cloak and ruddy hair , and started along the beach .
In the sleety gloom , he could just see a hewn - out path winding up one of the cliffs and he set his feet on it .
At the top of the path , the wind ripped his whistling from his lips .
He hunched his back against it and walked faster , swearing as he stumbled on hidden rocks .
The ice - sheathed ground was slippery underfoot , and the cold bit like a knife .
Rounding a crag , he saw redness glow in the face of a steep bluff .
A cave mouth , a fire within - he hastened his steps , hungering for warmth , until he stood in the entrance . "
Who comes ? "
It was a hoarse bass cry that rang and boomed between walls of rock ; there was ice and horror in it , for a moment Cappen 's heart stumbled .
Then he remembered the amulet and strode boldly inside .
" Good evening , mother , " he said cheerily .
The cave widened out into a stony hugeness that gaped with tunnels leading further underground .
The rough , soot - blackened walls were hung with plundered silks and cloth - of - gold , gone ragged with age and damp ; the floor was strewn with stinking rushes , and gnawed bones were heaped in disorder .
Cappen saw the skulls of men among them .
In the center of the room , a great fire leaped and blazed , throwing billows of heat against him ; some of its smoke went up a hole in the roof , the rest stung his eyes to watering and he sneezed .
The troll - wife crouched on the floor , snarling at him .
She was quite the most hideous thing Cappen had ever seen : nearly as tall as he , she was twice as broad and thick , and the knotted arms hung down past bowed knees till their clawed fingers brushed the ground .
Her head was beast - like , almost split in half by the tusked mouth , the eyes wells of darkness , the nose an ell long ; her hairless skin was green and cold , moving on her bones .
A tattered shift covered some of her monstrousness , but she was still a nightmare .
" Ho - ho , ho - ho ! "
Her laughter roared out , hungry and hollow as the surf around the island .
Slowly , she shuffled closer .
" So my dinner comes walking in to greet me , ho , ho , ho !
Welcome , sweet flesh , welcome , good marrow - filled bones , come in and be warmed . "
" Why , thank you , good mother . "
Cappen shucked his cloak and grinning at her through the smoke .
He felt his clothes steaming already .
" I love you too . "
Over her shoulder , he suddenly saw the girl .
She was huddled in a corner , wrapped in fear , but the eyes that watched him were as blue as the skies over Caronne .
The ragged dress did not hide the gentle curves of her body , nor did the tear - streaked grime spoil the lilt of her face .
" Why , ' tis springtime in here , " cried Cappen , " and Primavera herself is strewing flowers of love . "
" What are you talking about , crazy man ? "
rumbled the troll - wife .
She turned to the girl .
" Heap the fire , Hildigund , and set up the roasting spit .
Tonight I feast ! "
" Truly I see heaven in female form before me , " said Cappen .
The troll scratched her misshapen head .
" You must surely be from far away , moonstruck man , " she said .
" Aye , from golden Croy am I wandered , drawn over dolorous seas and empty wild lands by the fame of loveliness waiting here ; and now that I have seen you , my life is full . "
Cappen was looking at the girl as he spoke , but he hoped the troll might take it as aimed her way .
" It will be fuller , " grinned the monster .
" Stuffed with hot coals while yet you live . "
She glanced back at the girl .
" What , are you not working yet , you lazy tub of lard ?
Set up the spit , I said ! "
The girl shuddered back against a heap of wood .
" No , " she whispered .
" I can not - not ... not for a man . "
" Can and will , my girl , " said the troll , picking up a bone to throw at her .
The girl shrieked a little .
" No , no , sweet mother .
I would not be so ungallant as to have beauty toil for me . "
Cappen plucked at the troll 's filthy dress .
" It is not meet - in two senses .
I only came to beg a little fire ; yet will I bear away a greater fire within my heart . "
" Fire in your guts , you mean !
No man ever left me save as picked bones . "
Cappen thought he heard a worried note in the animal growl .
" Shall we have music for the feast ? "
he asked mildly .
He unslung the case of his harp and took it out .
The troll - wife waved her fists in the air and danced with rage .
" Are you mad ?
I tell you , you are going to be eaten ! "
The minstrel plucked a string on his harp .
" This wet air has played the devil with her tone , " he murmured sadly .
The troll - wife roared wordlessly and lunged at him .
Hildigund covered her eyes .
Cappen tuned his harp .
A foot from his throat , the claws stopped .
" Pray do not excite yourself , mother , " said the bard .
" I carry silver , you know . "
" What is that to me ?
If you think you have a charm which will turn me , know that there is none .
I 've no fear of your metal ! "
Cappen threw back his head and sang : " A lovely lady full oft lies .
The light that lies within her eyes And lies and lies , in no surprise .
All her unkindness can devise To trouble hearts that seek the prize Which is herself , are angel lies - " " Aaaarrrgh ! "
It was like thunder drowning him out .
The troll - wife turned and went on all fours and poked up the fire with her nose .
Cappen stepped softly around her and touched the girl .
She looked up with a little whimper .
" You are Svearek 's only daughter , are you not ? "
he whispered .
" Aye - " She bowed her head , a strengthless despair weighting it down .
" The troll stole me away three winters agone .
It has tickled her to have a princess for slave - but soon I will roast on her spit , even as ye , brave man - " " Ridiculous .
So fair a lady is meant for another kind of , um , never mind !
Has she treated you very ill ? "
" She beats me now and again - and I have been so lonely , naught here at all save the troll - wife and I - " The small work - roughened hands clutched desperately at his waist , and she buried her face against his breast .
" Can ye save us ? "
she gasped .
" I fear ' tis for naught ye ventured yer life , bravest of men .
I fear we 'll soon both sputter on the coals . "
Cappen said nothing .
If she wanted to think he had come especially to rescue her , he would not be so ungallant to tell her otherwise .
The troll - wife 's mouth gashed in a grin as she walked through the fire to him .
" There is a price , " she said .
" If you can not tell me three things about myself which are true beyond disproving , not courage nor amulet nor the gods themselves may avail to keep that red head on your shoulders . "
Cappen clapped a hand to his sword .
" Why , gladly , " he said ; this was a rule of magic he had learned long ago , that three truths were the needful armor to make any guardian charm work .
" Imprimis , yours is the ugliest nose I ever saw poking up a fire .
Secundus , I was never in a house I cared less to guest at .
Tertius , ever among trolls you are little liked , being one of the worst . "
Hildigund moaned with terror as the monster swelled in rage .
But there was no movement .
Only the leaping flames and the eddying smoke stirred .
Cappen 's voice rang out , coldly : " Now the king lies on the sea , frozen and wet , and I am come to fetch a brand for his fire .
And I had best also see his daughter home . "
The troll shook her head , suddenly chuckling .
" No .
The brand you may have , just to get you out of this cave , foulness ; but the woman is in my thrall until a man sleeps with her - here - for a night .
And if he does , I may have him to break my fast in the morning ! "
Cappen yawned mightily .
" Thank you , mother .
Your offer of a bed is most welcome to these tired bones , and I accept gratefully . "
" You will die tomorrow ! "
she raved .
The ground shook under the huge weight of her as she stamped .
" Because of the three truths , I must let you go tonight ; but tomorrow I may do what I will ! "
" Forget not my little friend , mother , " said Cappen , and touched the cord of the amulet .
" I tell you , silver has no use against me - " Cappen sprawled on the floor and rippled fingers across his harp . "
A lovely lady full oft lies - " The troll - wife turned from him in a rage .
Hildigund ladled up some broth , saying nothing , and Cappen ate it with pleasure , though it could have used more seasoning .
After that he indited a sonnet to the princess , who regarded him wide - eyed .
The troll came back from a tunnel after he finished , and said curtly : " This way . "
Cappen took the girl 's hand and followed her into a pitchy , reeking dark .
She plucked an arras aside to show a room which surprised him by being hung with tapestries , lit with candles , and furnished with a fine broad featherbed .
" Sleep here tonight , if you dare , " she growled .
" And tomorrow I shall eat you - and you , worthless lazy she - trash , will have the hide flayed off your back ! "
She barked a laugh and left them .
Hildigund fell weeping on the mattress .
Cappen let her cry herself out while he undressed and got between the blankets .
Drawing his sword , he laid it carefully in the middle of the bed .
The girl looked at him through jumbled fair locks .
" How can ye dare ? "
she whispered .
" One breath of fear , one moment 's doubt , and the troll is free to rend ye . "
" Exactly . "
Cappen yawned .
" Doubtless she hopes that fear will come to me lying wakeful in the night .
Wherefore ' tis but a question of going gently to sleep .
O Svearek , Torbek , and Beorna , could you but see how I am resting now ! "
" But ... the three truths ye gave her ... how knew ye ... ? "
" Oh , those .
Well , see you , sweet lady , Primus and Secundus were my own thoughts , and who is to disprove them ?
Tertius was also clear , since you said there had been no company here in three years - yet are there many trolls in these lands , ergo even they can not stomach our gentle hostess . "
Cappen watched her through heavy - lidded eyes .
She flushed deeply , blew out the candles , and he heard her slip off her garment and get in with him .
There was a long silence .
Then : " Are ye not - " " Yes , fair one ? "
he muttered through his drowsiness .
" Are ye not ... well , I am here and ye are here and - " " Fear not , " he said .
" I laid my sword between us .
Sleep in peace . "
" I ... would be glad - ye have come to deliver - " " No , fair lady .
No man of gentle breeding could so abuse his power .
Goodnight . "
He leaned over , brushing his lips gently across hers , and lay down again .
" Ye are ...
I never thought man could be so noble , " she whispered .
Cappen mumbled something .
As his soul spun into sleep , he chuckled .
Those unresting days and nights on the sea had not left him fit for that kind of exercise .
But , of course , if she wanted to think he was being magnanimous , it could be useful later - He woke with a start and looked into the sputtering glare of a torch .
Its light wove across the crags and gullies of the troll - wife 's face and shimmered wetly off the great tusks in her mouth .
" Good morning , mother , " said Cappen politely .
Hildigund thrust back a scream .
" Come and be eaten , " said the troll - wife .
" No , thank you , " said Cappen , regretfully but firmly .
" ' Twould be ill for my health .
No , I will but trouble you for a firebrand and then the princess and I will be off . "
" If you think that stupid bit of silver will protect you , think again , " she snapped .
" Your three sentences were all that saved you last night .
Now I hunger . "
" Silver , " said Cappen didactically , " is a certain shield against all black magics .
So the wizard told me , and he was such a nice white - bearded old man I am sure even his attendant devils never lied .
Now please depart , mother , for modesty forbids me to dress before your eyes . "
The hideous face thrust close to his .
He smiled dreamily and tweaked her nose - hard .
She howled and flung the torch at him .
Cappen caught it and stuffed it into her mouth .
She choked and ran from the room .
" A new sport - trollbaiting , " said the bard gaily into the sudden darkness .
" Come , shall we not venture out ? "
The girl trembled too much to move .
He comforted her , absentmindedly , and dressed in the dark , swearing at the clumsy leggings .
When he left , Hildigund put on her clothes and hurried after him .
The troll - wife squatted by the fire and glared at them as they went by .
Cappen hefted his sword and looked at her .
" I do not love you , " he said mildly , and hewed out .
She backed away , shrieking as he slashed at her .
In the end , she crouched at the mouth of a tunnel , raging futilely .
Cappen pricked her with his blade .
" It is not worth my time to follow you down underground , " he said , " but if ever you trouble men again , I will hear of it and come and feed you to my dogs .
A piece at a time - a very small piece - do you understand ? "
She snarled at him .
" An extremely small piece , " said Cappen amiably .
" Have you heard me ? "
Something broke in her .
" Yes , " she whimpered .
He let her go , and she scuttled from him like a rat .
He remembered the firewood and took an armful ; on the way , he thoughtfully picked up a few jeweled rings which he did n't think she would be needing and stuck them in his pouch .
Then he led the girl outside .
The wind had laid itself , a clear frosty morning glittered on the sea and the longship was a distant sliver against white - capped blueness .
The minstrel groaned .
" What a distance to row !
Oh , well - " They were at sea before Hildigund spoke .
Awe was in the eyes that watched him .
" No man could be so brave , " she murmured .
" Are ye a god ? "
" Not quite , " said Cappen .
" No , most beautiful one , modesty grips my tongue .
' Twas but that I had the silver and was therefore proof against her sorcery . "
" But the silver was no help ! "
she cried .
Cappen 's oar caught a crab .
" What ? "
he yelled .
" No - no - why , she told ye so her own self - " " I thought she lied .
I know the silver guards against - " " But she used no magic !
Trolls have but their own strength ! "
Cappen sagged in his seat .
For a moment he thought he was going to faint .
Then only his lack of fear had armored him ; and if he had known the truth , that would not have lasted a minute .
He laughed shakily .
Another score for his doubts about the overall value of truth !
The longship 's oars bit water and approached him .
Indignant voices asking why he had been so long on his errand faded when his passenger was seen .
And Svearek the king wept as he took his daughter back into his arms .
The hard brown face was still blurred with tears when he looked at the minstrel , but the return of his old self was there too .
" What ye have done , Cappen Varra of Croy , is what no other man in the world could have done . "
" Aye - aye - " The rough northern voices held adoration as the warriors crowded around the slim red - haired figure .
" Ye shall have her whom ye saved to wife , " said Svearek , " and when I die ye shall rule all Norren . "
Cappen swayed and clutched the rail .
Three nights later he slipped away from their shore camp and turned his face southward .
To upset the stable , mighty stream of time would probably take an enormous concentration of energy .
And it 's not to be expected that a man would get a second chance at life .
But an atomic might accomplish both - Blinded by the bomb - flash and numbed by the narcotic injection , he could not estimate the extent of his injuries , but he knew that he was dying .
Around him , in the darkness , voices sounded as through a thick wall .
" They mighta left mosta these Joes where they was .
Half of them wo n't even last till the truck comes . "
" No matter ; so long as they 're alive , they must be treated , " another voice , crisp and cultivated , rebuked .
" Better start taking names , while we 're waiting . "
" Yes , sir . "
Fingers fumbled at his identity badge .
" Hartley , Allan ; Captain , G5 , Chem .
Research AN/73 / D.
Serial , SO - 23869403J. "
" Allan Hartley ! "
The medic officer spoke in shocked surprise .
" Why , he 's the man who wrote ' Children of the Mist ' , ' Rose of Death ' , and ' Conqueror 's Road ' ! "
He tried to speak , and must have stirred ; the corpsman 's voice sharpened .
" Major , I think he 's part conscious .
Mebbe I better give him ' nother shot . "
" Yes , yes ; by all means , sergeant . "
Something jabbed Allan Hartley in the back of the neck .
Soft billows of oblivion closed in upon him , and all that remained to him was a tiny spark of awareness , glowing alone and lost in a great darkness .
The Spark grew brighter .
He was more than a something that merely knew that it existed .
He was a man , and he had a name , and a military rank , and memories .
Memories of the searing blue - green flash , and of what he had been doing outside the shelter the moment before , and memories of the month - long siege , and of the retreat from the north , and memories of the days before the War , back to the time when he had been little Allan Hartley , a schoolboy , the son of a successful lawyer , in Williamsport , Pennsylvania .
His mother he could not remember ; there was only a vague impression of the house full of people who had tried to comfort him for something he could not understand .
But he remembered the old German woman who had kept house for his father , afterward , and he remembered his bedroom , with its chintz - covered chairs , and the warm - colored patch quilt on the old cherry bed , and the tan curtains at the windows , edged with dusky red , and the morning sun shining through them .
He could almost see them , now .
He blinked .
He could see them !
For a long time , he lay staring at them unbelievingly , and then he deliberately closed his eyes and counted ten seconds , and as he counted , terror gripped him .
He was afraid to open them again , lest he find himself blind , or gazing at the filth and wreckage of a blasted city , but when he reached ten , he forced himself to look , and gave a sigh of relief .
The sunlit curtains and the sun - gilded mist outside were still there .
He reached out to check one sense against another , feeling the rough monk 's cloth and the edging of maroon silk thread .
They were tangible as well as visible .
Then he saw that the back of his hand was unscarred .
There should have been a scar , souvenir of a rough - and - tumble brawl of his cub reporter days .
He examined both hands closely .
An instant later , he had sat up in bed and thrown off the covers , partially removing his pajamas and inspecting as much of his body as was visible .
It was the smooth body of a little boy .
That was ridiculous .
He was a man of forty - three ; an army officer , a chemist , once a best - selling novelist .
He had been married , and divorced ten years ago .
He looked again at his body .
It was only twelve years old .
Fourteen , at the very oldest .
His eyes swept the room , wide with wonder .
Every detail was familiar : the flower - splashed chair covers ; the table that served as desk and catch - all for his possessions ; the dresser , with its mirror stuck full of pictures of aircraft .
It was the bedroom of his childhood home .
He swung his legs over the edge of the bed .
They were six inches too short to reach the floor .
For an instant , the room spun dizzily ; and he was in the grip of utter panic , all confidence in the evidence of his senses lost .
Was he insane ?
Or delirious ?
Or had the bomb really killed him ; was this what death was like ?
What was that thing , about " ye become as little children " ?
He started to laugh , and his juvenile larynx made giggling sounds .
They seemed funny , too , and aggravated his mirth .
For a little while , he was on the edge of hysteria and then , when he managed to control his laughter , he felt calmer .
If he were dead , then he must be a discarnate entity , and would be able to penetrate matter .
To his relief , he was unable to push his hand through the bed .
So he was alive ; he was also fully awake , and , he hoped , rational .
He rose to his feet and prowled about the room , taking stock of its contents .
There was no calendar in sight , and he could find no newspapers or dated periodicals , but he knew that it was prior to July 18 , 1946 .
On that day , his fourteenth birthday , his father had given him a light .22 rifle , and it had been hung on a pair of rustic forks on the wall .
It was not there now , nor ever had been .
On the table , he saw a boys ' book of military aircraft , with a clean , new dustjacket ; the flyleaf was inscribed : To Allan Hartley , from his father , on his thirteenth birthday , 7/18 ' 45 .
Glancing out the window at the foliage on the trees , he estimated the date at late July or early August , 1945 ; that would make him just thirteen .
His clothes were draped on a chair beside the bed .
Stripping off his pajamas , he donned shorts , then sat down and picked up a pair of lemon - colored socks , which he regarded with disfavor .
As he pulled one on , a church bell began to clang .
St. Boniface , up on the hill , ringing for early Mass ; so this was Sunday .
He paused , the second sock in his hand .
There was no question that his present environment was actual .
Yet , on the other hand , he possessed a set of memories completely at variance with it .
Now , suppose , since his environment were not an illusion , everything else were ?
Suppose all these troublesome memories were no more than a dream ?
Why , he was just little Allan Hartley , safe in his room on a Sunday morning , badly scared by a nightmare !
Too much science fiction , Allan ; too many comic books !
That was a wonderfully comforting thought , and he hugged it to him contentedly .
It lasted all the while he was buttoning up his shirt and pulling on his pants , but when he reached for his shoes , it evaporated .
Ever since he had wakened , he realized , he had been occupied with thoughts utterly incomprehensible to any thirteen - year - old ; even thinking in words that would have been so much Sanscrit to himself at thirteen .
He shook his head regretfully .
The just - a - dream hypothesis went by the deep six .
He picked up the second shoe and glared at it as though it were responsible for his predicament .
He was going to have to be careful .
An unexpected display of adult characteristics might give rise to some questions he would find hard to answer credibly .
Fortunately , he was an only child ; there would be no brothers or sisters to trip him up .
Old Mrs. Stauber , the housekeeper , would n't be much of a problem ; even in his normal childhood , he had bulked like an intellectual giant in comparison to her .
But his father - Now , there the going would be tough .
He knew that shrewd attorney 's mind , whetted keen on a generation of lying and reluctant witnesses .
Sooner or later , he would forget for an instant and betray himself .
Then he smiled , remembering the books he had discovered , in his late ' teens , on his father 's shelves and recalling the character of the openminded agnostic lawyer .
If he could only avoid the inevitable unmasking until he had a plausible explanatory theory .
Blake Hartley was leaving the bathroom as Allan Hartley opened his door and stepped into the hall .
The lawyer was bare - armed and in slippers ; at forty - eight , there was only a faint powdering of gray in his dark hair , and not a gray thread in his clipped mustache .
The old Merry Widower , himself , Allan thought , grinning as he remembered the white - haired but still vigorous man from whom he 'd parted at the outbreak of the War .
" ' Morning , Dad , " he greeted .
" ' Morning , son .
You 're up early .
Going to Sunday school ? "
Now there was the advantage of a father who 'd cut his first intellectual tooth on Tom Paine and Bob Ingersoll ; attendance at divine services was on a strictly voluntary basis .
" Why , I do n't think so ; I want to do some reading , this morning . "
" That 's always a good thing to do , " Blake Hartley approved .
" After breakfast , suppose you take a walk down to the station and get me a Times . "
He dug in his trouser pocket and came out with a half dollar .
" Get anything you want for yourself , while you 're at it . "
Allan thanked his father and pocketed the coin .
" Mrs. Stauber'll still be at Mass , " he suggested .
" Say I get the paper now ; breakfast wo n't be ready till she gets here . "
" Good idea . "
Blake Hartley nodded , pleased .
" You 'll have three - quarters of an hour , at least . "
So far , he congratulated himself , everything had gone smoothly .
Finishing his toilet , he went downstairs and onto the street , turning left at Brandon to Campbell , and left again in the direction of the station .
Before he reached the underpass , a dozen half - forgotten memories had revived .
Here was a house that would , in a few years , be gutted by fire .
Here were four dwellings standing where he had last seen a five - story apartment building .
A gasoline station and a weed - grown lot would shortly be replaced by a supermarket .
The environs of the station itself were a complete puzzle to him , until he oriented himself .
He bought a New York Times , glancing first of all at the date line .
Sunday , August 5 , 1945 ; he 'd estimated pretty closely .
The battle of Okinawa had been won .
The Potsdam Conference had just ended .
There were still pictures of the B - 25 crash against the Empire State Building , a week ago Saturday .
And Japan was still being pounded by bombs from the air and shells from off - shore naval guns .
Why , tomorrow , Hiroshima was due for the Big Job !
It amused him to reflect that he was probably the only person in Williamsport who knew that .
On the way home , a boy , sitting on the top step of a front porch , hailed him .
Allan replied cordially , trying to remember who it was .
Of course ; Larry Morton !
He and Allan had been buddies .
They probably had been swimming , or playing Commandos and Germans , the afternoon before .
Larry had gone to Cornell the same year that Allan had gone to Penn State ; they had both graduated in 1954 .
Larry had gotten into some Government bureau , and then he had married a Pittsburgh girl , and had become twelfth vice - president of her father 's firm .
He had been killed , in 1968 , in a plane crash .
" You gon na Sunday school ? "
Larry asked , mercifully unaware of the fate Allan foresaw for him .
" Why , no .
I have some things I want to do at home . "
He 'd have to watch himself .
Larry would spot a difference quicker than any adult .
" Heck with it , " he added .
" Golly , I wisht I c'ld stay home from Sunday school whenever I wanted to , " Larry envied .
" How about us goin' swimmin ' , at the Canoe Club , ' safter ? "
Allan thought fast .
" Gee , I wisht I c'ld , " he replied , lowering his grammatical sights .
" I got ta stay home , ' safter .
We 're expectin ' comp'ny ; coupla aunts of mine .
Dad wants me to stay home when they come . "
That went over all right .
Anybody knew that there was no rational accounting for the vagaries of the adult mind , and no appeal from adult demands .
The prospect of company at the Hartley home would keep Larry away , that afternoon .
He showed his disappointment .
" Aw , jeepers creepers ! "
he blasphemed euphemistically .
" Mebbe t'morrow , " Allan said .
" If I c'n make it .
I got ta go , now ; ai n't had breakfast yet . "
He scuffed his feet boyishly , exchanged so - longs with his friend , and continued homeward .
As he had hoped , the Sunday paper kept his father occupied at breakfast , to the exclusion of any dangerous table talk .
Blake Hartley was still deep in the financial section when Allan left the table and went to the library .
There should be two books there to which he wanted badly to refer .
For a while , he was afraid that his father had not acquired them prior to 1945 , but he finally found them , and carried them onto the front porch , along with a pencil and a ruled yellow scratch pad .
In his experienced future - or his past - to - come - Allan Hartley had been accustomed to doing his thinking with a pencil .
As reporter , as novelist plotting his work , as amateur chemist in his home laboratory , as scientific warfare research officer , his ideas had always been clarified by making notes .
He pushed a chair to the table and built up the seat with cushions , wondering how soon he would become used to the proportional disparity between himself and the furniture .
As he opened the books and took his pencil in his hand , there was one thing missing .
If he could only smoke a pipe , now !
His father came out and stretched in a wicker chair with the Times book - review section .
The morning hours passed .
Allan Hartley leafed through one book and then the other .
His pencil moved rapidly at times ; at others , he doodled absently .
There was no question , any more , in his mind , as to what or who he was .
He was Allan Hartley , a man of forty - three , marooned in his own thirteen - year - old body , thirty years back in his own past .
That was , of course , against all common sense , but he was easily able to ignore that objection .
It had been made before : against the astronomy of Copernicus , and the geography of Columbus , and the biology of Darwin , and the industrial technology of Samuel Colt , and the military doctrines of Charles de Gaulle .
Today 's common sense had a habit of turning into tomorrow 's utter nonsense .
What he needed , right now , but bad , was a theory that would explain what had happened to him .
Understanding was beginning to dawn when Mrs. Stauber came out to announce midday dinner .
" I hope you von't mind haffin ' it so early , " she apologized .
" Mein sister , Jennie , offer in Nippenose , she iss sick ; I vant to go see her , dis afternoon , yet .
I 'll be back in blenty time to get supper , Mr.
Hartley . "
" Hey , Dad ! "
Allan spoke up .
" Why ca n't we get our own supper , and have a picnic , like ?
That 'd be fun , and Mrs. Stauber could stay as long as she wanted to . "
His father looked at him .
Such consideration for others was a most gratifying deviation from the juvenile norm ; dawn of altruism , or something .
He gave hearty assent : " Why , of course , Mrs. Stauber .
Allan and I can shift for ourselves , this evening ; ca n't we , Allan ?
You need n't come back till tomorrow morning . "
" Ach , t'ank you !
T'ank you so mooch , Mr.
Hartley . "
At dinner , Allan got out from under the burden of conversation by questioning his father about the War and luring him into a lengthy dissertation on the difficulties of the forthcoming invasion of Japan .
In view of what he remembered of the next twenty - four hours , Allan was secretly amused .
His father was sure that the War would run on to mid - 1946 .
After dinner , they returned to the porch , Hartley pre smoking a cigar and carrying out several law books .
He only glanced at these occasionally ; for the most part , he sat and blew smoke rings , and watched them float away .
Some thrice - guilty felon was about to be triumphantly acquitted by a weeping jury ; Allan could recognize a courtroom masterpiece in the process of incubation .
It was several hours later that the crunch of feet on the walk caused father and son to look up simultaneously .
The approaching visitor was a tall man in a rumpled black suit ; he had knobby wrists and big , awkward hands ; black hair flecked with gray , and a harsh , bigoted face .
Allan remembered him .
Frank Gutchall .
Lived on Campbell Street ; a religious fanatic , and some sort of lay preacher .
Maybe he needed legal advice ; Allan could vaguely remember some incident - " Ah , good afternoon , Mr. Gutchall .
Lovely day , is n't it ? "
Blake Hartley said .
Gutchall cleared his throat .
" Mr. Hartley , I wonder if you could lend me a gun and some bullets , " he began , embarrassedly .
" My little dog 's been hurt , and it 's suffering something terrible .
I want a gun , to put the poor thing out of its pain . "
" Why , yes ; of course .
How would a 20 - gauge shotgun do ? "
Blake Hartley asked .
" You would n't want anything heavy . "
Gutchall fidgeted .
" Why , er , I was hoping you 'd let me have a little gun . "
He held his hands about six inches apart .
" A pistol , that I could put in my pocket .
It would n't look right , to carry a hunting gun on the Lord 's day ; people would n't understand that it was for a work of mercy . "
The lawyer nodded .
In view of Gutchall 's religious beliefs , the objection made sense .
" Well , I have a Colt .38 - special , " he said , " but you know , I belong to this Auxiliary Police outfit .
If I were called out for duty , this evening , I 'd need it .
How soon could you bring it back ? "
Something clicked in Allan Hartley 's mind .
He remembered , now , what that incident had been .
He knew , too , what he had to do .
" Dad , are n't there some cartridges left for the Luger ? "
he asked .
Blake Hartley snapped his fingers .
" By George , yes !
I have a German automatic I can let you have , but I wish you 'd bring it back as soon as possible .
I 'll get it for you . "
Before he could rise , Allan was on his feet .
" Sit still , Dad ; I 'll get it .
I know where the cartridges are . "
With that , he darted into the house and upstairs .
The Luger hung on the wall over his father 's bed .
Getting it down , he dismounted it , working with rapid precision .
He used the blade of his pocketknife to unlock the endpiece of the breechblock , slipping out the firing pin and buttoning it into his shirt pocket .
Then he reassembled the harmless pistol , and filled the clip with 9 - millimeter cartridges from the bureau drawer .
There was an extension telephone beside the bed .
Finding Gutchall 's address in the directory , he lifted the telephone , and stretched his handkerchief over the mouthpiece .
Then he dialed Police Headquarters .
[ Illustration ] " This is Blake Hartley , " he lied , deepening his voice and copying his father 's tone .
" Frank Gutchall , who lives at ... take this down " - he gave Gutchall 's address - " has just borrowed a pistol from me , ostensibly to shoot a dog .
He has no dog .
He intends shooting his wife .
Do n't argue about how I know ; there is n't time .
Just take it for granted that I do .
I disabled the pistol - took out the firing pin - but if he finds out what I did , he may get some other weapon .
He 's on his way home , but he 's on foot .
If you hurry , you may get a man there before he arrives , and grab him before he finds out the pistol wo n't shoot . "
" O. K. , Mr. Hartley .
We 'll take care of it .
Thanks . "
" And I wish you 'd get my pistol back , as soon as you can .
It 's something I brought home from the other War , and I should n't like to lose it . "
" We 'll take care of that , too .
Thank you , Mr.
Hartley . "
He hung up , and carried the Luger and the loaded clip down to the porch .
" Look , Mr. Gutchall ; here 's how it works , " he said , showing it to the visitor .
Then he slapped in the clip and yanked up on the toggle loading the chamber .
" It 's ready to shoot , now ; this is the safety . "
He pushed it on .
" When you 're ready to shoot , just shove it forward and up , and then pull the trigger .
You have to pull the trigger each time ; it 's loaded for eight shots .
And be sure to put the safety back when you 're through shooting . "
" Did you load the chamber ? "
Blake Hartley demanded .
" Sure .
It 's on safe , now . "
" Let me see . "
His father took the pistol , being careful to keep his finger out of the trigger guard , and looked at it .
" Yes , that 's all right . "
He repeated the instructions Allan had given , stressing the importance of putting the safety on after using .
" Understand how it works , now ? "
he asked .
" Yes , I understand how it works .
Thank you , Mr. Hartley .
Thank you , too , young man . "
Gutchall put the Luger in his hip pocket , made sure it would n't fall out , and took his departure .
" You should n't have loaded it , " Hartley pre reproved , when he was gone .
Allan sighed .
This was it ; the masquerade was over .
" I had to , to keep you from fooling with it , " he said .
" I did n't want you finding out that I 'd taken out the firing pin . "
" You what ? "
" Gutchall did n't want that gun to shoot a dog .
He has no dog .
He meant to shoot his wife with it .
He 's a religious maniac ; sees visions , hears voices , receives revelations , talks with the Holy Ghost .
The Holy Ghost probably put him up to this caper .
I 'll submit that any man who holds long conversations with the Deity is n't to be trusted with a gun , and neither is any man who lies about why he wants one .
And while I was at it , I called the police , on the upstairs phone .
I had to use your name ; I deepened my voice and talked through a handkerchief . "
" You - " Blake Hartley jumped as though bee - stung .
" Why did you have to do that ? "
" You know why .
I could n't have told them , ' This is little Allan Hartley , just thirteen years old ; please , Mr. Policeman , go and arrest Frank Gutchall before he goes root - toot - toot at his wife with my pappa 's Luger . '
That would have gone over big , now , would n't it ? "
" And suppose he really wants to shoot a dog ; what sort of a mess will I be in ? "
" No mess at all .
If I 'm wrong - which I 'm not - I 'll take the thump for it , myself .
It 'll pass for a dumb kid trick , and nothing'll be done .
But if I 'm right , you 'll have to front for me .
They 'll keep your name out of it , but they 'd give me a lot of cheap boy - hero publicity , which I do n't want . "
He picked up his pencil again .
" We should have the complete returns in about twenty minutes . "
That was a ten - minute under - estimate , and it was another quarter - hour before the detective - sergeant who returned the Luger had finished congratulating Blake Hartley and giving him the thanks of the Department .
After he had gone , the lawyer picked up the Luger , withdrew the clip , and ejected the round in the chamber .
" Well , " he told his son , " you were right .
You saved that woman 's life . "
He looked at the automatic , and then handed it across the table .
" Now , let 's see you put that firing pin back . "
Allan Hartley dismantled the weapon , inserted the missing part , and put it together again , then snapped it experimentally and returned it to his father .
Blake Hartley looked at it again , and laid it on the table .
" Now , son , suppose we have a little talk , " he said softly .
" But I explained everything . "
Allan objected innocently .
" You did not , " his father retorted .
" Yesterday you 'd never have thought of a trick like this ; why , you would n't even have known how to take this pistol apart .
And at dinner , I caught you using language and expressing ideas that were entirely outside anything you 'd ever known before .
Now , I want to know - and I mean this literally . "
Allan chuckled .
" I hope you 're not toying with the rather medieval notion of possession , " he said .
Blake Hartley started .
Something very like that must have been flitting through his mind .
He opened his mouth to say something , then closed it abruptly .
" The trouble is , I 'm not sure you are n't right , " his son continued .
" You say you find me - changed .
When did you first notice a difference ? "
" Last night , you were still my little boy .
This morning - " Blake Hartley was talking more to himself than to Allan .
" I do n't know .
You were unusually silent at breakfast .
And come to think of it , there was something ... something strange ... about you when I saw you in the hall , upstairs ....
Allan ! "
he burst out , vehemently .
" What has happened to you ? "
Allan Hartley felt a twinge of pain .
What his father was going through was almost what he , himself , had endured , in the first few minutes after waking .
" I wish I could be sure , myself , Dad , " he said .
" You see , when I woke , this morning , I had n't the least recollection of anything I 'd done yesterday .
August 4 , 1945 , that is , " he specified .
" I was positively convinced that I was a man of forty - three , and my last memory was of lying on a stretcher , injured by a bomb explosion .
And I was equally convinced that this had happened in 1975 . "
" Huh ? "
His father straightened .
" Did you say nineteen seventy - five ? "
He thought for a moment .
" That 's right ; in 1975 , you will be forty - three .
A bomb , you say ? "
Allan nodded .
" During the siege of Buffalo , in the Third World War , " he said , " I was a captain in G5 - Scientific Warfare , General Staff .
There 'd been a transpolar air invasion of Canada , and I 'd been sent to the front to check on service failures of a new lubricating oil for combat equipment .
A week after I got there , Ottawa fell , and the retreat started .
We made a stand at Buffalo , and that was where I copped it .
I remember being picked up , and getting a narcotic injection .
The next thing I knew , I was in bed , upstairs , and it was 1945 again , and I was back in my own little thirteen - year - old body . "
" Oh , Allan , you just had a nightmare to end nightmares ! "
his father assured him , laughing a trifle too heartily .
" That 's all ! "
" That was one of the first things I thought of .
I had to reject it ; it just would n't fit the facts .
Look ; a normal dream is part of the dreamer 's own physical brain , is n't it ?
Well , here is a part about two thousand per cent greater than the whole from which it was taken .
Which is absurd . "
" You mean all this Battle of Buffalo stuff ?
That 's easy .
All the radio commentators have been harping on the horrors of World War III , and you could n't have avoided hearing some of it .
You just have an undigested chunk of H. V. Kaltenborn raising hell in your subconscious . "
" It was n't just World War III ; it was everything .
My four years at high school , and my four years at Penn State , and my seven years as a reporter on the Philadelphia Record .
And my novels : ' Children of the Mist , ' ' Rose of Death , ' ' Conqueror 's Road . '
They were no kid stuff .
Why , yesterday I 'd never even have thought of some of the ideas I used in my detective stories , that I published under a nom - de - plume .
And my hobby , chemistry ; I was pretty good at that .
Patented a couple of processes that made me as much money as my writing .
You think a thirteen - year - old just dreamed all that up ?
Or , here ; you speak French , do n't you ? "
He switched languages and spoke at some length in good conversational slang - spiced Parisian .
" Too bad you do n't speak Spanish , too , " he added , reverting to English .
" Except for a Mexican accent you could cut with a machete , I 'm even better there than in French .
And I know some German , and a little Russian . "
Blake Hartley was staring at his son , stunned .
It was some time before he could make himself speak .
" I could barely keep up with you , in French , " he admitted .
" I can swear that in the last thirteen years of your life , you had absolutely no chance to learn it .
All right ; you lived till 1975 , you say .
Then , all of a sudden , you found yourself back here , thirteen years old , in 1945 .
I suppose you remember everything in between ? "
he asked .
" Did you ever read James Branch Cabell ?
Remember Florian de Puysange , in ' The High Place ' ? "
" Yes .
You find the same idea in ' Jurgen ' too , " Allan said .
" You know , I 'm beginning to wonder if Cabell might n't have known something he did n't want to write . "
" But it 's impossible ! "
Blake Hartley hit the table with his hand , so hard that the heavy pistol bounced .
The loose round he had ejected from the chamber toppled over and started to roll , falling off the edge .
He stooped and picked it up .
" How can you go back , against time ?
And the time you claim you came from does n't exist , now ; it has n't happened yet . "
He reached for the pistol magazine , to insert the cartridge , and as he did , he saw the books in front of his son .
" Dunne 's ' Experiment with Time , ' " he commented .
" And J. N. M. Tyrrell 's ' Science and Psychical Phenomena . '
Are you trying to work out a theory ? "
" Yes . "
It encouraged Allan to see that his father had unconsciously adopted an adult - to - adult manner .
" I think I 'm getting somewhere , too .
You 've read these books ?
Well , look , Dad ; what 's your attitude on precognition ?
The ability of the human mind to exhibit real knowledge , apart from logical inference , of future events ?
You think Dunne is telling the truth about his experiences ?
Or that the cases in Tyrrell 's book are properly verified , and ca n't be explained away on the basis of chance ? "
Blake Hartley frowned .
" I do n't know , " he confessed .
" The evidence is the sort that any court in the world would accept , if it concerned ordinary , normal events .
Especially the cases investigated by the Society for Psychical Research : they have been verified .
But how can anybody know of something that has n't happened yet ?
If it has n't happened yet , it does n't exist , and you ca n't have real knowledge of something that has no real existence . "
" Tyrrell discusses that dilemma , and does n't dispose of it .
I think I can .
If somebody has real knowledge of the future , then the future must be available to the present mind .
And if any moment other than the bare present exists , then all time must be totally present ; every moment must be perpetually coexistent with every other moment , " Allan said .
[ Illustration ] " Yes .
I think I see what you mean .
That was Dunne 's idea , was n't it ? "
" No .
Dunne postulated an infinite series of time dimensions , the entire extent of each being the bare present moment of the next .
What I 'm postulating is the perpetual coexistence of every moment of time in this dimension , just as every graduation on a yardstick exists equally with every other graduation , but each at a different point in space . "
" Well , as far as duration and sequence go , that 's all right , " the father agreed .
" But how about the ' Passage of Time ' ? "
" Well , time does appear to pass .
So does the landscape you see from a moving car window .
I 'll suggest that both are illusions of the same kind .
We imagine time to be dynamic , because we 've never viewed it from a fixed point , but if it is totally present , then it must be static , and in that case , we 're moving through time . "
" That seems all right .
But what 's your car window ? "
" If all time is totally present , then you must exist simultaneously at every moment along your individual life span , " Allan said .
" Your physical body , and your mind , and all the thoughts contained in your mind , each at its appropriate moment in sequence .
But what is it that exists only at the bare moment we think of as now ? "
Blake Hartley grinned .
Already , he was accepting his small son as an intellectual equal .
" Please , teacher ; what ? "
" Your consciousness .
And do n't say , ' What 's that ? '
Teacher does n't know .
But we 're only conscious of one moment ; the illusory now .
This is ' now , ' and it was ' now ' when you asked that question , and it 'll be ' now ' when I stop talking , but each is a different moment .
We imagine that all those nows are rushing past us .
Really , they 're standing still , and our consciousness is whizzing past them . "
His father thought that over for some time .
Then he sat up .
" Hey ! "
he cried , suddenly .
" If some part of our ego is time - free and passes from moment to moment , it must be extraphysical , because the physical body exists at every moment through which the consciousness passes .
And if it 's extraphysical , there 's no reason whatever for assuming that it passes out of existence when it reaches the moment of the death of the body .
Why , there 's logical evidence for survival , independent of any alleged spirit communication !
You can toss out Patience Worth , and Mrs. Osborne Leonard 's Feda , and Sir Oliver Lodge 's son , and Wilfred Brandon , and all the other spirit - communicators , and you still have evidence . "
" I had n't thought of that , " Allan confessed .
" I think you 're right .
Well , let 's put that at the bottom of the agenda and get on with this time business .
You ' lose consciousness ' as in sleep ; where does your consciousness go ?
I think it simply detaches from the moment at which you go to sleep , and moves backward or forward along the line of moment - sequence , to some prior or subsequent moment , attaching there . "
" Well , why do n't we know anything about that ? "
Blake Hartley asked .
" It never seems to happen .
We go to sleep tonight , and it 's always tomorrow morning when we wake ; never day - before - yesterday , or last month , or next year . "
" It never ... or almost never ... seems to happen ; you 're right there .
Know why ?
Because if the consciousness goes forward , it attaches at a moment when the physical brain contains memories of the previous , consciously unexperienced , moment .
You wake , remembering the evening before , because that 's the memory contained in your mind at that moment , and back of it are memories of all the events in the interim .
See ? "
" Yes .
But how about backward movement , like this experience of yours ? "
" This experience of mine may not be unique , but I never heard of another case like it .
What usually happens is that the memories carried back by the consciousness are buried in the subconscious mind .
You know how thick the wall between the subconscious and the conscious mind is .
These dreams of Dunne 's , and the cases in Tyrrell 's book , are leakage .
That 's why precognitions are usually incomplete and distorted , and generally trivial .
The wonder is n't that good cases are so few ; it 's surprising that there are any at all . "
Allan looked at the papers in front of him .
" I have n't begun to theorize about how I managed to remember everything .
It may have been the radiations from the bomb , or the effect of the narcotic , or both together , or something at this end , or a combination of all three .
But the fact remains that my subconscious barrier did n't function , and everything got through .
So , you see , I am obsessed - by my own future identity . "
" And I 'd been afraid that you 'd been , well , taken - over by some ... some outsider . "
Blake Hartley grinned weakly .
" I do n't mind admitting , Allan , that what 's happened has been a shock .
But that other ...
I just could n't have taken that . "
" No .
Not and stayed sane .
But really , I am your son ; the same entity I was yesterday .
I 've just had what you might call an educational short cut . "
" I 'll say you have ! "
His father laughed in real amusement .
He discovered that his cigar had gone out , and re - lit it .
" Here ; if you can remember the next thirty years , suppose you tell me when the War 's going to end .
This one , I mean . "
" The Japanese surrender will be announced at exactly 1901 - 7:01 P. M. present style - on August 14 .
A week from Tuesday .
Better make sure we have plenty of grub in the house by then .
Everything will be closed up tight till Thursday morning ; even the restaurants .
I remember , we had nothing to eat in the house but some scraps . "
" Well !
It is handy , having a prophet in the family !
I 'll see to it Mrs. Stauber gets plenty of groceries in .... Tuesday a week ?
That 's pretty sudden , is n't it ? "
" The Japs are going to think so , " Allan replied .
He went on to describe what was going to happen .
His father swore softly .
" You know , I 've heard talk about atomic energy , but I thought it was just Buck Rogers stuff .
Was that the sort of bomb that got you ? "
" That was a firecracker to the bomb that got me .
That thing exploded a good ten miles away . "
Blake Hartley whistled softly .
" And that 's going to happen in thirty years !
You know , son , if I were you , I would n't like to have to know about a thing like that . "
He looked at Allan for a moment .
" Please , if you know , do n't ever tell me when I 'm going to die . "
Allan smiled .
" I ca n't .
I had a letter from you just before I left for the front .
You were seventy - eight , then , and you were still hunting , and fishing , and flying your own plane .
But I 'm not going to get killed in any Battle of Buffalo , this time , and if I can prevent it , and I think I can , there wo n't be any World War III . "
" But - You say all time exists , perpetually coexistent and totally present , " his father said .
" Then it 's right there in front of you , and you 're getting closer to it , every watch tick . "
Allan Hartley shook his head .
" You know what I remembered , when Frank Gutchall came to borrow a gun ? "
he asked .
" Well , the other time , I had n't been home : I 'd been swimming at the Canoe Club , with Larry Morton .
When I got home , about half an hour from now , I found the house full of cops .
Gutchall talked the .38 officers ' model out of you , and gone home ; he 'd shot his wife four times through the body , finished her off with another one back of the ear , and then used his sixth shot to blast his brains out .
The cops traced the gun ; they took a very poor view of your lending it to him .
You never got it back . "
" Trust that gang to keep a good gun , " the lawyer said .
" I did n't want us to lose it , this time , and I did n't want to see you lose face around City Hall .
Gutchalls , of course , are expendable , " Allan said .
" But my main reason for fixing Frank Gutchall up with a padded cell was that I wanted to know whether or not the future could be altered .
I have it on experimental authority that it can be .
There must be additional dimensions of time ; lines of alternate probabilities .
Something like William Seabrook 's witch - doctor friend 's Fan - Shaped Destiny .
When I brought memories of the future back to the present , I added certain factors to the causal chain .
That set up an entirely new line of probabilities .
On no notice at all , I stopped a murder and a suicide .
With thirty years to work , I can stop a world war .
I 'll have the means to do it , too . "
" The means ? "
" Unlimited wealth and influence .
Here . "
Allan picked up a sheet and handed it to his father .
" Used properly , we can make two or three million on that , alone .
A list of all the Kentucky Derby , Preakness , and Belmont winners to 1970 .
That 'll furnish us primary capital .
Then , remember , I was something of a chemist .
I took it up , originally , to get background material for one of my detective stories ; it fascinated me , and I made it a hobby , and then a source of income .
I 'm thirty years ahead of any chemist in the world , now .
You remember I. G. Farbenindustrie ?
Ten years from now , we 'll make them look like pikers . "
His father looked at the yellow sheet .
" Assault , at eight to one , " he said .
" I can scrape up about five thousand for that - Yes ; in ten years - Any other little operations you have in mind ? "
he asked .
" About 1950 , we start building a political organization , here in Pennsylvania .
In 1960 , I think we can elect you President .
The world situation will be crucial , by that time , and we had a good - natured nonentity in the White House then , who let things go till war became inevitable .
I think President Hartley can be trusted to take a strong line of policy .
In the meantime , you can read Machiavelli . "
" That 's my little boy , talking ! "
Blake Hartley said softly .
" All right , son ; I 'll do just what you tell me , and when you grow up , I 'll be president .... Let 's go get supper , now . "
THE END .
The humblest events sometimes result from the most grandiose beginnings .
You 'd never imagine space travel starting this way , for instance !
I suppose there 's a guy like McCleary in every office .
Now I 'm not a hard man to get along with and it usually takes quite a bit more than overly bright remarks from the office boy to bother me .
But try as I might , I could never get along with McCleary .
To be as disliked as he was , you have to work at it .
What kind of guy was he ?
Well , if you came down to the office one day proud as Punch because of something little Johnny or Josephine had said , it was a sure cinch that McCleary would horn in with something his little Louie had spouted off that morning .
At any rate , when McCleary got through , you felt like taking Johnny to the doctor to find out what made him subnormal .
Or maybe you happened to buy a new Super - eight that week and were bragging about the mileage , the terrific pickup , and how quickly she responded to the wheel .
Leave it to McCleary to give a quick run - down on his own car that would make you feel like selling yours for junk at the nearest scrap heap .
Well , you see what I mean .
But by far the worst of it was when vacation time rolled around .
You could forgive a guy for topping you about how brainy his kids are , and you might even find it in your heart to forget the terrific bargain he drove to work in .
But vacation time was when he 'd really get on your nerves .
You could pack the wife and kids in Old Reliable and roll out to the lake for your two weeks in August .
You might even break the bank and spend the two weeks at a poor man 's Sun Valley .
But no matter where you went , when you came back , you 'd have to sit in silence and listen to McCleary 's account of his Vacation in the Adirondacks , or his Tramp in the Canadian Wilds , or maybe even the Old French Quarter .
The trouble was he always had the photographs , the ticket stubs , and the souvenirs to prove it .
Where he got the money , I 'll never know .
Sometimes I 'd tell the wife about it and she 'd sniff and wonder what kind of shabby house they lived in that they could afford all the other things .
I never looked him up myself .
Tell you the truth , I was afraid I 'd find the McClearys lived on Park Avenue .
Now you look forward to a vacation all year , but particularly during the latter part of July , when , what with the heat and the stuffy office , you begin to feel like a half - done hotdog at a barbecue .
I was feeling even worse than usual as I was faced with spending my two weeks in my own backyard , most of my vacation dough having gone to pay the doctor .
The only thing I minded was having McCleary find out about it and seeing that phony look of sympathy roll across his fat face while he rambled on about the vacation he was going to have .
It was lunch time and we had just finished talking about the latest on television and what was wrong with the Administration and who 'd win the pennant when Bob Young brought up the subject of vacations .
It turned out he was due for a trip to the Ozarks and Donley was going after wall - eye pike in northern Wisconsin .
I could sense McCleary prick up his ears clear across the room .
" How about you , Bill ? "
Donley asked me .
" Got any plans ? "
I winked heavily and jerked a thumb warningly toward McCleary , making sure McCleary could n't see the gesture .
" My vacation is really going to be out of the world this time , " I said .
" Me and the wife are going to Mars .
Dry , you know .
Even better than Arizona for her sinus . "
Even with the wink they were caught off guard for a minute .
" Mars ? "
Donley said feebly , edging his chair away .
" Yeah , sure .
Great place .
Never been there myself , though . "
Young just gaped , then grinned as he caught on .
" I understand it 's a wonderful spot , " he chipped in .
I casually peeled a hard - boiled egg the wife had packed in my lunch bucket and leaned back in my swivel chair .
" It 's really swell , " I said dreamily , but loud enough so McCleary could n't help but overhear .
" Drifting down the Grand Canal at evening , the sun a faint golden disk behind the crystal towers of Marsport .... " I let my voice drift into a long sigh and reached for Donley 's sack of grapes .
About this time McCleary had gnawed his way through a big pastrami sandwich and waddled over .
He stood there expectantly , but we carefully ignored him .
" Always wanted to go myself , " Donley said in the same tone of voice he would have used to say he 'd like to go to California someday .
" Pretty expensive , though , is n't it ? "
" Expensive ? "
I raised a studiedly surprised eyebrow .
" Oh , I suppose a little , but it 's worth it .
The wife and I got a roomette on the Princess of Mars for $ 139.50 .
That 's one way , of course . "
" Mars ! "
Young sighed wistfully .
There was a moment of silence , with all three of us paying silent tribute to the ultimate in vacations .
McCleary slowly masticated a leaf of lettuce , his initial look of suspicion giving way to half - belief .
" Let 's hear some more about it , " Young said enthusiastically , suddenly recovering from his reverie .
" Oh , there is n't much more , " I said indifferently .
" We plan to stay at the Redsands hotel in Marsport - American plan .
Take in Marsport , with maybe a side trip to Crystallite .
If we have time we might even take a waterway cruise to the North Pole .... " I broke off and dug Donley in the ribs .
" Man , you never fished until you have a Martian flying fish at the end of the line ! "
I grabbed a ruler off the desk and began using it as an imaginary rod and reel .
" Talk about fight ... oh , sorry , Mac . "
My ruler had amputated part of a floppy lettuce leaf that hung from McCleary 's sandwich .
I settled down in my chair again and started paying attention to my lunch .
" Nothing like it , " I added between mouthfuls of liverwurst .
" How about entertainment ? "
Young winked slyly .
" Well , you know - the wife will be along , " I said .
" But some of the places near the Grand Canal - and those Martian Mist Maidens !
Brother , if I was unattached .... " " There ai n't any life on Mars , " McCleary said , suspicious again .
All three of us looked at him in shocked silence .
" He says there 's no life on Mars ! "
Donley repeated .
" You ever been there , McCleary ? "
I asked sarcastically .
" No , but just the same .... " " All right , " I cut in , " then you do n't know whether there is or is n't .
So kindly reserve your opinion until you know a little about the subject under discussion . "
I turned back to Donley and Young .
" Really a wonderful place for your health .
Dry , thin air , nice and cool at night .
And beautiful !
From Marsport you can see low - slung mountains in the distance , dunes of soft , red sand stretching out to them .
If I were you , Bob , I 'd forget all about the Ozarks and sign up on the rocket . "
" There ai n't any rockets going to Mars , " McCleary said obstinately .
" Is n't , " I corrected .
" I mean , there is .
Besides , McCleary , just because you never heard of something does n't mean it does n't exist . "
" The government 's still working on V - 2 , " McCleary said flatly .
" They have n't even reached the moon yet . "
I sighed softly , acting disgusted at having to deal with somebody as stupid as McCleary .
" Mac , that 's the government and besides they 're dealing with military rockets .
And did you ever hear of the government perfecting something before private industry ?
Who perfected the telephone , the radio , television ?
The government ?
No , private industry , of course !
Private industry has always been ahead of the government on everything , including rockets .
Get on the stick , Mac . "
McCleary started in on his lettuce leaf again , looking very shrewd .
" How come I never heard of it before now ? "
he asked , springing the clincher argument .
" Look , Mac , this is relatively new .
The company 's just starting , ca n't afford to take full - page ads and that sort of thing .
Just give 'em time , that 's all .
Why , a couple of years from now you 'll be spending your vacation on Venus or Jupiter or some place like that .
From now on California and the Bahamas will be strictly old hat . "
McCleary looked half - believing .
" Where 'd you get your tickets ? "
I waved vaguely in the direction of downtown .
" Oh , there must be at least a couple of agencies downtown .
Might even be able to find them in the phone book .
Look under Interplanetary Rocket Lines or something like that .
You might have a little difficulty , of course .
Like I say , they 're not too well advertised . "
McCleary was about to say something more , but then the one o'clock bell rang and we went back to the office grind .
Well , McCleary did n't say anything more about it the next day , even though we 'd throw in a chance comment about Mars every now and then , as if it were the most natural thing in the world , but Mac did n't rise to the bait .
We gradually forgot about it .
The next couple of weeks came and went and then my two weeks in August .
Like I said before , my vacation dough had gone to pay the doctor , so I stayed at home and watered the begonias .
The Monday morning after vacation , we were all back in the office , if anything looking more fagged than we had when we left .
When lunch time rolled around , Donley and Young and I piled our lunches on Donley 's desk - his desk was near a window on the north side of the building so we could get the breeze - and talked about what we had done during vacation .
McCleary ambled up and like it usually does after McCleary comes around , the conversation just naturally died down .
After a two minute silence I finally took the hook .
" Okay , Mac , " I said , " I know you 're just dying to tell us .
Where did you go ? "
He almost looked surprised .
" To Mars , " he said , like he might have said Aunt Minnie 's .
The three of us looked blank for a minute and then we caught on .
It took us a while to recover from laughing and my sides were still aching when I saw McCleary 's face .
It definitely had a hurt look on it .
" You do n't think I did , " he accused us .
" Oh , come off it , McCleary , " I said crossly .
" A gag 's a gag , but it can be carried too far .
Where 'd you go ?
California , Oregon , some place like that ? "
" I said I went to Mars , " McCleary repeated hotly , " and I can prove it ! "
" Sure , " I said .
" Like I can prove the world 's flat and it 's supported by four elephants standing on a turtle 's back like the old Greeks .... " I cut off .
McCleary had thrown a couple of pasteboards on the desk and I picked them up .
The printing on it was like you see on a Pullman ticket .
It said something about a roomette , first - class passage on the Martian Prince , for $ 154.75 , and there was even a place where they had the tax figured .
In two blanks at the top of the ticket , they had it filled out to E. C. McCleary and wife .
The bottom half was torn off , just like they do with train tickets .
" Very clever , " I said , " but you should n't have gone to all that trouble to have these printed up . "
McCleary scowled and dropped a little bunch of kodachrome slides on the desk .
I took one and held it up to the light .
It showed Mac and his wife mounted on something that looked like a cross between a camel and a zebra .
They were at the top of a sand dune and in the distance you could see the towers of a city .
The funny thing was the towers looked a little - but not much - like minarets and the sand dunes were colored a beautiful pink .
I passed it on to Donley and Young and started leafing through the rest .
They were beautiful slides .
McCleary and spouse in front of various structures in a delicately tinted marble and crystal city .
McCleary in a pink - and - black boat on a canal that looked as wide as the Mississippi .
McCleary standing on a strangely carved sandstone parapet , admiring a sunset caused by a sun looking half as big as ours .
And everywhere were the dunes of pink sand .
" Pictures can be faked , Mac , " I said .
He looked hurt and got some things out of his desk - a sateen pillow with scenes like those on his snapshots , an urn filled with pink sand , a tiny boat like a gondola , only different , a letter opener made out of peculiar bubbly pink glass .
They were all stamped " Souvenir of Mars " and that kind of junk you do n't have made up for a gag .
I know mass - produced articles when I see them .
" We could n't afford the first - class tour , " McCleary said expansively , " but I figure we can cover that next year . "
He turned to me puzzledly .
" I asked the passenger agent about the Princess of Mars and he said he had never heard of the ship .
And it 's Mars City , not Marsport .
Could n't understand how you made a mistake . "
" It was easy , " I said weakly .
I pointed to the pasteboard ducats .
" Where 'd you get these , Mac ? "
He waved generously in the direction of downtown .
" Like you said , there 's a couple of agencies downtown .... " You know , sometimes I think we misjudged McCleary .
It takes a while to get to know a guy like Mac .
Maybe his Louie is brighter than Johnny , and maybe his chugmobile is something terrific .
For the last few years , all on account of Mac , my two weeks in August have really been well spent Beautiful !
Why , from Mars City you can see low - slung mountains in the distance and dunes of soft , red sand stretching out to them .
And the sunsets when you 're standing on the parapets of that delicate crystal city .... And , man , fishing in the Grand Canal .... How do you get to Mars ?
There 's probably a couple of agencies in your own town .
You can look them up in your phone book under " Vacation at the Planets of Pleasure " or something like that .
They might be a little difficult to find , though .
You see , they 're not very well advertised yet .
The Professor was congratulating Earth 's first visitor from another planet on his wisdom in getting in touch with a cultural anthropologist before contacting any other scientists ( or governments , God forbid !
) , and in learning English from radio and TV before landing from his orbit - parked rocket , when the Martian stood up and said hesitantly , " Excuse me , please , but where is it ? "
That baffled the Professor and the Martian seemed to grow anxious - at least his long mouth curved upward , and he had earlier explained that it curling downward was his smile - and he repeated , " Please , where is it ? "
He was surprisingly humanoid in most respects , but his complexion was textured so like the rich dark armchair he 'd just been occupying that the Professor 's pin - striped gray suit , which he had eagerly consented to wear , seemed an arbitrary interruption between him and the chair - a sort of Mother Hubbard dress on a phantom conjured from its leather .
The Professor 's Wife , always a perceptive hostess , came to her husband 's rescue by saying with equal rapidity , " Top of the stairs , end of the hall , last door . "
The Martian 's mouth curled happily downward and he said , " Thank you very much , " and was off .
Comprehension burst on the Professor .
He caught up with his guest at the foot of the stairs .
" Here , I 'll show you the way , " he said .
" No , I can find it myself , thank you , " the Martian assured him .
Something rather final in the Martian 's tone made the Professor desist , and after watching his visitor sway up the stairs with an almost hypnotic softly jogging movement , he rejoined his wife in the study , saying wonderingly , " Who 'd have thought it , by George !
Function taboos as strict as our own ! "
" I 'm glad some of your professional visitors maintain 'em , " his wife said darkly .
" But this one 's from Mars , darling , and to find out he 's - well , similar in an aspect of his life is as thrilling as the discovery that water is burned hydrogen .
When I think of the day not far distant when I 'll put his entries in the cross - cultural index ... " He was still rhapsodizing when the Professor 's Little Son raced in .
" Pop , the Martian 's gone to the bathroom ! "
" Hush , dear .
Manners . "
" Now it 's perfectly natural , darling , that the boy should notice and be excited .
Yes , Son , the Martian 's not so very different from us . "
" Oh , certainly , " the Professor 's Wife said with a trace of bitterness .
" I do n't imagine his turquoise complexion will cause any comment at all when you bring him to a faculty reception .
They 'll just figure he 's had a hard night - and that he got that baby - elephant nose sniffing around for assistant professorships . "
" Really , darling !
He probably thinks of our noses as disagreeably amputated and paralyzed . "
" Well , anyway , Pop , he 's in the bathroom .
I followed him when he squiggled upstairs . "
" Now , Son , you should n't have done that .
He 's on a strange planet and it might make him nervous if he thought he was being spied on .
We must show him every courtesy .
By George , I ca n't wait to discuss these things with Ackerly - Ramsbottom !
When I think of how much more this encounter has to give the anthropologist than even the physicist or astronomer ... " [ Illustration ] He was still going strong on his second rhapsody when he was interrupted by another high - speed entrance .
It was the Professor 's Coltish Daughter .
" Mom , Pop , the Martian 's - " " Hush , dear .
We know . "
The Professor 's Coltish Daughter regained her adolescent poise , which was considerable .
" Well , he 's still in there , " she said .
" I just tried the door and it was locked . "
" I 'm glad it was ! "
the Professor said while his wife added , " Yes , you ca n't be sure what - " and caught herself .
" Really , dear , that was very bad manners . "
" I thought he 'd come downstairs long ago , " her daughter explained .
" He 's been in there an awfully long time .
It must have been a half hour ago that I saw him gyre and gimbal upstairs in that real gone way he has , with Nosy here following him . "
The Professor 's Coltish Daughter was currently soaking up both jive and Alice .
When the Professor checked his wristwatch , his expression grew troubled .
" By George , he is taking his time !
Though , of course , we do n't know how much time Martians ...
I wonder . "
" I listened for a while , Pop , " his son volunteered .
" He was running the water a lot . "
" Running the water , eh ?
We know Mars is a water - starved planet .
I suppose that in the presence of unlimited water , he might be seized by a kind of madness and ...
But he seemed so well adjusted . "
Then his wife spoke , voicing all their thoughts .
Her outlook on life gave her a naturally sepulchral voice . "
What 's he doing in there ? "
Twenty minutes and at least as many fantastic suggestions later , the Professor glanced again at his watch and nerved himself for action .
Motioning his family aside , he mounted the stairs and tiptoed down the hall .
He paused only once to shake his head and mutter under his breath , " By George , I wish I had Fenchurch or von Gottschalk here .
They 're a shade better than I am on intercultural contracts , especially taboo - breakings and affronts ... " His family followed him at a short distance .
The Professor stopped in front of the bathroom door .
Everything was quiet as death .
He listened for a minute and then rapped measuredly , steadying his hand by clutching its wrist with the other .
There was a faint splashing , but no other sound .
Another minute passed .
The Professor rapped again .
Now there was no response at all .
He very gingerly tried the knob .
The door was still locked .
When they had retreated to the stairs , it was the Professor 's Wife who once more voiced their thoughts .
This time her voice carried overtones of supernatural horror . "
What 's he doing in there ? "
" He may be dead or dying , " the Professor 's Coltish Daughter suggested briskly .
" Maybe we ought to call the Fire Department , like they did for old Mrs.
Frisbee . "
The Professor winced .
" I 'm afraid you have n't visualized the complications , dear , " he said gently .
" No one but ourselves knows that the Martian is on Earth , or has even the slightest inkling that interplanetary travel has been achieved .
Whatever we do , it will have to be on our own .
But to break in on a creature engaged in - well , we do n't know what primal private activity - is against all anthropological practice .
Still - " " Dying 's a primal activity , " his daughter said crisply .
" So 's ritual bathing before mass murder , " his wife added .
" Please !
Still , as I was about to say , we do have the moral duty to succor him if , as you all too reasonably suggest , he has been incapacitated by a germ or virus or , more likely , by some simple environmental factor such as Earth 's greater gravity . "
" Tell you what , Pop - I can look in the bathroom window and see what he 's doing .
All I have to do is crawl out my bedroom window and along the gutter a little ways .
It 's safe as houses . "
The Professor 's question beginning with , " Son , how do you know - " died unuttered and he refused to notice the words his daughter was voicing silently at her brother .
He glanced at his wife 's sardonically composed face , thought once more of the Fire Department and of other and larger and even more jealous - or would it be skeptical ?
- government agencies , and clutched at the straw offered him .
Ten minutes later , he was quite unnecessarily assisting his son back through the bedroom window .
" Gee , Pop , I could n't see a sign of him .
That 's why I took so long .
Hey , Pop , do n't look so scared .
He 's in there , sure enough .
It 's just that the bathtub 's under the window and you have to get real close up to see into it . "
" The Martian 's taking a bath ? "
" Yep .
Got it full up and just the end of his little old schnozzle sticking out .
Your suit , Pop , was hanging on the door . "
The one word the Professor 's Wife spoke was like a death knell . "
Drowned ! "
" No , Ma , I do n't think so .
His schnozzle was opening and closing regular like . "
" Maybe he 's a shape - changer , " the Professor 's Coltish Daughter said in a burst of evil fantasy .
" Maybe he softens in water and thins out after a while until he 's like an eel and then he 'll go exploring through the sewer pipes .
Would n't it be funny if he went under the street and knocked on the stopper from underneath and crawled into the bathtub with President Rexford , or Mrs. President Rexford , or maybe right into the middle of one of Janey Rexford 's Oh - I 'm - so - sexy bubble baths ? "
" Please ! "
The Professor put his hand to his eyebrows and kept it there , cuddling the elbow in his other hand .
" Well , have you thought of something ? "
the Professor 's Wife asked him after a bit .
" What are you going to do ? "
The Professor dropped his hand and blinked his eyes hard and took a deep breath .
" Telegraph Fenchurch and Ackerly - Ramsbottom and then break in , " he said in a resigned voice , into which , nevertheless , a note of hope seemed also to have come .
" First , however , I 'm going to wait until morning . "
And he sat down cross - legged in the hall a few yards from the bathroom door and folded his arms .
So the long vigil commenced .
The Professor 's family shared it and he offered no objection .
Other and sterner men , he told himself , might claim to be able successfully to order their children to go to bed when there was a Martian locked in the bathroom , but he would like to see them faced with the situation .
Finally dawn began to seep from the bedrooms .
When the bulb in the hall had grown quite dim , the Professor unfolded his arms .
Just then , there was a loud splashing in the bathroom .
The Professor 's family looked toward the door .
The splashing stopped and they heard the Martian moving around .
Then the door opened and the Martian appeared in the Professor 's gray pin - stripe suit .
His mouth curled sharply downward in a broad alien smile as he saw the Professor .
" Good morning ! "
the Martian said happily .
" I never slept better in my life , even in my own little wet bed back on Mars . "
He looked around more closely and his mouth straightened .
" But where did you all sleep ? "
he asked .
" Do n't tell me you stayed dry all night !
You did n't give up your only bed to me ? "
His mouth curled upward in misery .
" Oh , dear , " he said , " I 'm afraid I 've made a mistake somehow .
Yet I do n't understand how .
Before I studied you , I did n't know what your sleeping habits would be , but that question was answered for me - in fact , it looked so reassuringly homelike - when I saw those brief TV scenes of your females ready for sleep in their little tubs .
Of course , on Mars , only the fortunate can always be sure of sleeping wet , but here , with your abundance of water , I thought there would be wet beds for all . "
He paused .
" It 's true I had some doubts last night , wondering if I 'd used the right words and all , but then when you rapped ' Good night ' to me , I splashed the sentiment back at you and went to sleep in a wink .
But I 'm afraid that somewhere I 've blundered and - " " No , no , dear chap , " the Professor managed to say .
He had been waving his hand in a gentle circle for some time in token that he wanted to interrupt .
" Everything is quite all right .
It 's true we stayed up all night , but please consider that as a watch - an honor guard , by George !
- which we kept to indicate our esteem . "
He lived in a basement , in a little room with one window .
The window looked out on the street .
Through the window he used to watch the people passing by ; although only their feet could be seen , yet by the boots , Martuin Avdyeitch recognized the people .
Martuin Avdyeitch had lived long in one place , and had many acquaintances .
Few pairs of boots in his district had not been in his hands once and again .
Some he would half - sole , some he would patch , some he would stitch around , and occasionally he would also put on new uppers .
And through the window he often recognized his work .
Avdyeitch had plenty to do , because he was a faithful workman , used good material , did not make exorbitant charges , and kept his word .
If it was possible for him to finish an order by a certain time , he would accept it ; otherwise , he would not deceive you , - he would tell you so beforehand .
And all knew Avdyeitch , and he was never out of work .
Avdyeitch had always been a good man ; but as he grew old , he began to think more about his soul , and get nearer to God .
Martuin 's wife had died when he was still living with his master .
His wife left him a boy three years old .
None of their other children had lived .
All the eldest had died in childhood .
Martuin at first intended to send his little son to his sister in the village , but afterward he felt sorry for him ; he thought to himself : - " It will be hard for my Kapitoshka to live in a strange family .
I shall keep him with me . "
And Avdyeitch left his master , and went into lodgings with his little son .
But God gave Avdyeitch no luck with his children .
As Kapitoshka grew older , he began to help his father , and would have been a delight to him , but a sickness fell on him , he went to bed , suffered a week , and died .
Martuin buried his son , and fell into despair .
So deep was this despair that he began to complain of God .
Martuin fell into such a melancholy state , that more than once he prayed to God for death , and reproached God because He had not taken him who was an old man , instead of his beloved only son .
Avdyeitch also ceased to go to church .
And once a little old man from the same district came from Trotsa(1 ) to see Avdyeitch ; for seven years he had been wandering about .
Avdyeitch talked with him , and began to complain about his sorrows .
( 1 ) Trinity , a famous monastery , pilgrimage to which is reckoned a virtue .
Avdyeitch calls this zemlyak - starichok , Bozhi chelovyek , God 's man .
- Ed .
" I have no desire to live any longer , " he said , " I only wish I was dead .
That is all I pray God for .
I am a man without anything to hope for now . "
And the little old man said to him : - " You do n't talk right , Martuin , we must not judge God 's doings .
The world moves , not by our skill , but by God 's will .
God decreed for your son to die , - for you - to live .
So it is for the best .
And you are in despair , because you wish to live for your own happiness . "
" But what shall one live for ? "
asked Martuin .
And the little old man said : - " We must live for God , Martuin .
He gives you life , and for His sake you must live .
When you begin to live for Him , you will not grieve over anything , and all will seem easy to you . "
Martuin kept silent for a moment , and then said , " But how can one live for God ? "
And the little old man said : - " Christ has taught us how to live for God .
You know how to read ?
Buy a Testament , and read it ; there you will learn how to live for God .
Everything is explained there . "
And these words kindled a fire in Avdyeitch 's heart .
And he went that very same day , bought a New Testament in large print , and began to read .
At first Avdyeitch intended to read only on holidays ; but as he began to read , it so cheered his soul that he used to read every day .
At times he would become so absorbed in reading , that all the kerosene in the lamp would burn out , and still he could not tear himself away .
And so Avdyeitch used to read every evening .
And the more he read , the clearer he understood what God wanted of him , and how one should live for God ; and his heart kept growing easier and easier .
Formerly , when he lay down to sleep , he used to sigh and groan , and always thought of his Kapitoshka ; and now his only exclamation was : - " Glory to Thee !
glory to Thee , Lord !
Thy will be done . "
And from that time Avdyeitch 's whole life was changed .
In other days he , too , used to drop into a public - house(2 ) as a holiday amusement , to drink a cup of tea ; and he was not averse to a little brandy , either .
He would take a drink with some acquaintance , and leave the saloon , not intoxicated , exactly , yet in a happy frame of mind , and inclined to talk nonsense , and shout , and use abusive language at a person .
Now he left off that sort of thing .
His life became quiet and joyful .
In the morning he would sit down to work , finish his allotted task , then take the little lamp from the hook , put it on the table , get his book from the shelf , open it , and sit down to read .
And the more he read , the more he understood , and the brighter and happier it grew in his heart .
( 2 ) Traktir .
Once it happened that Martuin read till late into the night .
He was reading the Gospel of Luke .
He was reading over the sixth chapter ; and he was reading the verses : - " And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other ; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also .
Give to every man that asketh of thee ; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again .
And as ye would that men should do to you , do ye also to them likewise . "
He read farther also those verses , where God speaks : " And why call ye me , Lord , Lord , and do not the things which I say ?
Whosoever cometh to me , and heareth my sayings , and doeth them , I will shew you to whom he is like : he is like a man which built an house , and digged deep , and laid the foundation on a rock : and when the flood arose , the stream beat vehemently upon that house , and could not shake it ; for it was founded upon a rock .
But he that heareth , and doeth not , is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth ; against which the stream did beat vehemently , and immediately it fell ; and the ruin of that house was great . "
Avdyeitch read these words , and joy filled his soul .
He took off his spectacles , put them down on the book , leaned his elbows on the table , and became lost in thought .
And he began to measure his life by these words .
And he thought to himself : - " Is my house built on the rock , or on the sand ?
' Tis well if on the rock .
It is so easy when you are alone by yourself ; it seems as if you had done everything as God commands ; but when you forget yourself , you sin again .
Yet I shall still struggle on .
It is very good .
Help me , Lord ! "
Thus ran his thoughts ; he wanted to go to bed , but he felt loath to tear himself away from the book .
And he began to read farther in the seventh chapter .
He read about the centurion , he read about the widow 's son , he read about the answer given to John 's disciples , and finally he came to that place where the rich Pharisee desired the Lord to sit at meat with him ; and he read how the woman that was a sinner anointed His feet , and washed them with her tears , and how He forgave her .
He reached the forty - fourth verse , and began to read : - " And he turned to the woman , and said unto Simon , Seest thou this woman ?
I entered into thine house , thou gavest me no water for my feet : but she hath washed my feet with tears , and wiped them with the hairs of her head .
Thou gavest me no kiss : but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet .
My head with oil thou didst not anoint : but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment . "
He finished reading these verses , and thought to himself : - " Thou gavest me no water for my feet , thou gavest me no kiss .
My head with oil thou didst not anoint . "
And again Avdyeitch took off his spectacles , put them down on the book , and again he became lost in thought .
" It seems that Pharisee must have been such a man as I am .
I , too , apparently have thought only of myself , - how I might have my tea , be warm and comfortable , but never to think about my guest .
He thought about himself , but there was not the least care taken of the guest .
And who was his guest ?
The Lord Himself .
If He had come to me , should I have done the same way ? "
Avdyeitch rested his head upon both his arms , and did not notice that he fell asleep .
" Martuin ! "
suddenly seemed to sound in his ears .
Martuin started from his sleep : - " Who is here ? "
He turned around , glanced toward the door - no one .
Again he fell into a doze .
Suddenly , he plainly heard : - " Martuin !
Ah , Martuin !
look to - morrow on the street .
I am coming . "
Martuin awoke , rose from the chair , began to rub his eyes .
He himself could not tell whether he heard those words in his dream , or in reality .
He turned down his lamp , and went to bed .
At daybreak next morning , Avdyeitch rose , made his prayer to God , lighted the stove , put on the shchi(3 ) and the kasha,(4 ) put the water in the samovar , put on his apron , and sat down by the window to work .
( 3 ) Cabbage - soup .
( 4 ) Gruel .
And while he was working , he kept thinking about all that had happened the day before .
It seemed to him at one moment that it was a dream , and now he had really heard a voice .
" Well , " he said to himself , " such things have been . "
Martuin was sitting by the window , and looking out more than he was working .
When anyone passed by in boots which he did not know , he would bend down , look out of the window , in order to see , not only the feet , but also the face .
The dvornik(5 ) passed by in new felt boots,(6 ) the water - carrier passed by ; then there came up to the window an old soldier of Nicholas 's time , in an old pair of laced felt boots , with a shovel in his hands .
Avdyeitch recognized him by his felt boots .
The old man 's name was Stepanuitch ; and a neighboring merchant , out of charity , gave him a home with him .
He was required to assist the dvornik .
Stepanuitch began to shovel away the snow from in front of Avdyeitch 's window .
Avdyeitch glanced at him , and took up his work again .
( 5 ) House - porter .
( 6 ) Valenki .
" Pshaw !
I must be getting crazy in my old age , " said Avdyeitch , and laughed at himself .
" Stepanuitch is clearing away the snow , and I imagine that Christ is coming to see me .
I was entirely out of my mind , old dotard that I am ! "
Avdyeitch sewed about a dozen stitches , and then felt impelled to look through the window again .
He looked out again through the window , and saw that Stepanuitch had leaned his shovel against the wall , and was warming himself , and resting .
He was an old , broken - down man ; evidently he had not strength enough even to shovel the snow .
Avdyeitch said to himself : - " I will give him some tea ; by the way , the samovar has only just gone out . "
Avdyeitch laid down his awl , rose from his seat , put the samovar on the table , poured out the tea , and tapped with his finger at the glass .
Stepanuitch turned around , and came to the window .
Avdyeitch beckoned to him , and went to open the door .
" Come in , warm yourself a little , " he said .
" You must be cold . "
" May Christ reward you for this !
my bones ache , " said Stepanuitch .
Stepanuitch came in , and shook off the snow , tried to wipe his feet , so as not to soil the floor , but staggered .
" Do n't trouble to wipe your feet .
I will clean it up myself ; we are used to such things .
Come in and sit down , " said Avdyeitch .
" Here , drink a cup of tea . "
And Avdyeitch lifted two glasses , and handed one to his guest ; while he himself poured his tea into a saucer , and began to blow it .
Stepanuitch finished drinking his glass of tea , turned the glass upside down,(7 ) put the half - eaten lump of sugar on it , and began to express his thanks .
But it was evident he wanted some more .
( 7 ) To signify he was satisfied ; a custom among the Russians .
- Ed .
" Have some more , " said Avdyeitch , filling both his own glass and his guest 's .
Avdyeitch drank his tea , but from time to time glanced out into the street .
" Are you expecting anyone ? "
asked his guest .
" Am I expecting anyone ?
I am ashamed even to tell whom I expect .
I am , and I am not , expecting someone ; but one word has kindled a fire in my heart .
Whether it is a dream , or something else , I do not know .
Do n't you see , brother , I was reading yesterday the Gospel about Christ the Batyushka ; how He suffered , how He walked on the earth .
I suppose you have heard about it ? "
" Indeed I have , " replied Stepanuitch ; " but we are people in darkness , we ca n't read . "
" Well , now , I was reading about that very thing , - how He walked on the earth ; I read , you know , how He came to the Pharisee , and the Pharisee did not treat Him hospitably .
Well , and so , my brother , I was reading yesterday , about this very thing , and was thinking to myself how he did not receive Christ , the Batyushka , with honor .
Suppose , for example , He should come to me , or anyone else , I said to myself , I should not even know how to receive Him .
And he gave Him no reception at all .
Well !
while I was thus thinking , I fell asleep , brother , and I heard someone call me by name .
I got up ; the voice , just as if someone whispered , said , ' Be on the watch ; I shall come to - morrow . '
And this happened twice .
Well !
would you believe it , it got into my head ?
I scolded myself - and yet I am expecting Him , the Batyushka . "
Stepanuitch shook his head , and said nothing ; he finished drinking his glass of tea , and put it on the side ; but Avdyeitch picked up the glass again , and filled it once more .
" Drink some more for your good health .
You see , I have an idea that , when the Batyushka went about on this earth , He disdained no one , and had more to do with the simple people .
He always went to see the simple people .
He picked out His disciples more from among folk like such sinners as we are , from the working class .
Said He , whoever exalts himself , shall be humbled , and he who is humbled shall become exalted .
Said He , you call me Lord , and , said He , I wash your feet .
Whoever wishes , said He , to be the first , the same shall be a servant to all .
Because , said He , blessed are the poor , the humble , the kind , the generous . "
And Stepanuitch forgot about his tea ; he was an old man , and easily moved to tears .
He was listening , and the tears rolled down his face .
" Come , now , have some more tea , " said Avdyeitch ; but Stepanuitch made the sign of the cross , thanked him , turned down his glass , and arose .
" Thanks to you , " he says , " Martuin Avdyeitch , for treating me kindly , and satisfying me , soul and body . "
" You are welcome ; come in again ; always glad to see a friend , " said Avdyeitch .
Stepanuitch departed ; and Martuin poured out the rest of the tea , drank it up , put away the dishes , and sat down again by the window to work , to stitch on a patch .
He kept stitching away , and at the same time looking through the window .
He was expecting Christ , and was all the while thinking of Him and His deeds , and his head was filled with the different speeches of Christ .
Two soldiers passed by : one wore boots furnished by the crown , and the other one , boots that he had made ; then the master(8 ) of the next house passed by in shining galoshes ; then a baker with a basket passed by .
All passed by ; and now there came also by the window a woman in woolen stockings and rustic bashmaks on her feet .
She passed by the window , and stood still near the window - case .
( 8) Khozyan .
Avdyeitch looked up at her from the window , and saw it was a stranger , a woman poorly clad , and with a child ; she was standing by the wall with her back to the wind , trying to wrap up the child , and she had nothing to wrap it up in .
The woman was dressed in shabby summer clothes ; and from behind the frame , Avdyeitch could hear the child crying , and the woman trying to pacify it ; but she was not able to pacify it .
Avdyeitch got up , went to the door , ascended the steps , and cried : - " My good woman .
Hey !
my good woman !
" ( 9 ) ( 9 ) Umnitsa aumnitsa !
literally , clever one .
The woman heard him and turned around .
" Why are you standing in the cold with the child ?
Come into my room , where it is warm ; you can manage it better .
Here , this way ! "
The woman was astonished .
She saw an old , old man in an apron , with spectacles on his nose , calling her to him .
She followed him .
They descended the steps and entered the room ; the old man led the woman to his bed .
" There , " says he , " sit down , my good woman , nearer to the stove ; you can get warm , and nurse the little one . "
" I have no milk for him .
I myself have not eaten anything since morning , " said the woman ; but , nevertheless , she took the baby to her breast .
Avdyeitch shook his head , went to the table , brought out the bread and a dish , opened the oven door , poured into the dish some cabbage soup , took out the pot with the gruel , but it was not cooked as yet ; so he filled the dish with shchi only , and put it on the table .
He got the bread , took the towel down from the hook , and spread it upon the table .
" Sit down , " he says , " and eat , my good woman ; and I will mind the little one .
You see , I once had children of my own ; I know how to handle them . "
The woman crossed herself , sat down at the table , and began to eat ; while Avdyeitch took a seat on the bed near the infant .
Avdyeitch kept smacking and smacking to it with his lips ; but it was a poor kind of smacking , for he had no teeth .
The little one kept on crying .
And it occured to Avdyeitch to threaten the little one with his finger ; he waved , waved his finger right before the child 's mouth , and hastily withdrew it .
He did not put it to its mouth , because his finger was black , and soiled with wax .
And the little one looked at his finger , and became quiet ; then it began to smile , and Avdyeitch also was glad .
While the woman was eating , she told who she was , and whither she was going .
Said she : - " I am a soldier 's wife .
It is now seven months since they sent my husband away off , and no tidings .
I lived out as cook ; the baby was born ; no one cared to keep me with a child .
This is the third month that I have been struggling along without a place .
I ate up all I had .
I wanted to engage as a wet - nurse - no one would take me - I am too thin , they say .
I have just been to the merchant 's wife , where lives a young woman I know , and so they promised to take us in .
I thought that was the end of it .
But she told me to come next week .
And she lives a long way off .
I got tired out ; and it tired him , too , my heart 's darling .
Fortunately , our landlady takes pity on us for the sake of Christ , and gives us a room , else I do n't know how I should manage to get along . "
Avdyeitch sighed , and said : " Have n't you any warm clothes ? "
" Now is the time , friend , to wear warm clothes ; but yesterday I pawned my last shawl for a twenty - kopek piece .
" ( 10 ) ( 10 ) Dvagrivennui , silver , worth sixteen cents .
The woman came to the bed , and took the child ; and Avdyeitch rose , went to the partition , rummaged round , and succeeded in finding an old coat .
" Na ! "
says he ; " It is a poor thing , yet you may turn it to some use . "
The woman looked at the coat and looked at the old man ; she took the coat , and burst into tears ; and Avdyeitch turned away his head ; crawling under the bed , he pushed out a little trunk , rummaged in it , and sat down again opposite the woman .
And the woman said : - " May Christ bless you , little grandfather !
( 11 ) He must have sent me to your window .
My little baby would have frozen to death .
When I started out it was warm , but now it has grown cold .
And He , the Batyushka , led you to look through the window and take pity on me , an unfortunate . "
( 11 ) Diedushka .
Avdyeitch smiled , and said : - " Indeed , He did that !
I have been looking through the window , my good woman , for some wise reason . "
And Martuin told the soldier 's wife his dream , and how he heard the voice , - how the Lord promised to come and see him that day .
" All things are possible , " said the woman .
She rose , put on the coat , wrapped up her little child in it ; and , as she started to take leave , she thanked Avdyeitch again .
" Take this , for Christ 's sake , " said Avdyeitch , giving her a twenty - kopek piece ; " redeem your shawl . "
She made the sign of the cross , and Avdyeitch made the sign of the cross and went with her to the door .
The woman went away .
Avdyeitch ate some shchi , washed the dishes , and sat down again to work .
While he was working he still remembered the window ; when the window grew darker he immediately looked out to see who was passing by .
Acquaintances passed by and strangers passed by , and there was nothing out of the ordinary .
But here Avdyeitch saw that an old apple woman had stopped in front of his window .
She carried a basket with apples .
Only a few were left , as she had evidently sold them nearly all out ; and over her shoulder she had a bag full of chips .
She must have gathered them up in some new building , and was on her way home .
One could see that the bag was heavy on her shoulder ; she tried to shift it to the other shoulder .
So she lowered the bag on the sidewalk , stood the basket with the apples on a little post , and began to shake down the splinters in the bag .
And while she was shaking her bag , a little boy in a torn cap came along , picked up an apple from the basket , and was about to make his escape ; but the old woman noticed it , turned around , and caught the youngster by his sleeve .
The little boy began to struggle , tried to tear himself away ; but the old woman grasped him with both hands , knocked off his cap , and caught him by the hair .
The little boy was screaming , the old woman was scolding .
Avdyeitch lost no time in putting away his awl ; he threw it upon the floor , sprang to the door , - he even stumbled on the stairs , and dropped his spectacles , - and rushed out into the street .
The old woman was pulling the youngster by his hair , and was scolding and threatening to take him to the policeman ; the youngster was defending himself , and denying the charge .
" I did not take it , " he said ; " What are you licking me for ?
Let me go ! "
Avdyeitch tried to separate them .
He took the boy by his arm , and said : - " Let him go , babushka ; forgive him , for Christ 's sake . "
" I will forgive him so that he wo n't forget it till the new broom grows .
I am going to take the little villain to the police . "
Avdyeitch began to entreat the old woman : - " Let him go , babushka , " he said , " he will never do it again .
Let him go , for Christ 's sake . "
The old woman let him loose ; the boy started to run , but Avdyeitch kept him back .
" Ask the babushka 's forgiveness , " he said , " and do n't you ever do it again ; I saw you take the apple . "
The boy burst into tears , and began to ask forgiveness .
" There now !
that 's right ; and here 's an apple for you . "
And Avdyeitch took an apple from the basket , and gave it to the boy .
" I will pay you for it , babushka , " he said to the old woman .
" You ruin them that way , the good - for - nothings , " said the old woman .
" He ought to be treated so that he would remember it for a whole week . "
" Eh , babushka , babushka , " said Avdyeitch , " that is right according to our judgment , but not according to God 's .
If he is to be whipped for an apple , then what ought to be done to us for our sins ? "
The old woman was silent .
And Avdyeitch told her the parable of the master who forgave a debtor all that he owed him , and how the debtor went and began to choke one who owed him .
The old woman listened , and the boy stood listening .
" God has commanded us to forgive , " said Avdyeitch , " else we , too , may not be forgiven .
All should be forgiven , and the thoughtless especially . "
The old woman shook her head , and sighed .
" That 's so , " said she ; " but the trouble is that they are very much spoiled . "
" Then we who are older must teach them , " said Avdyeitch .
" That 's just what I say , " remarked the old woman .
" I myself have had seven of them , - only one daughter is left . "
And the old woman began to relate where and how she lived with her daughter , and how many grandchildren she had .
" Here , " she says , " my strength is only so - so , and yet I have to work .
I pity the youngsters - my grandchildren - but what nice children they are !
No one gives me such a welcome as they do .
Aksintka wo n't go to anyone but me .
' Babushka , dear babushka , lovliest . ' "
And the old woman grew quite sentimental .
" Of course , it is a childish trick .
God be with him , " said she , pointing to the boy .
The woman was just about to lift the bag up on her shoulder , when the boy ran up , and said : - " Let me carry it , babushka ; it is on my way . "
The old woman nodded her head , and put the bag on the boy 's back .
And side by side they passed along the street .
And the old woman even forgot to ask Avdyeitch to pay for the apple .
Avdyeitch stood motionless , and kept gazing after them ; and he heard them talking all the time as they walked away .
After Avdyeitch saw them disappear , he returned to his room ; he found his eye - glasses on the stairs , - they were not broken ; he picked up his awl , and sat down to work again .
After working a little while , it grew darker , so that he could not see to sew ; he saw the lamplighter passing by to light the street - lamps .
" It must be time to make a light , " he said to himself ; so he got his little lamp ready , hung it up , and he took himself again to his work .
He had one boot already finished ; he turned it around , looked at it : " Well done . "
He put away his tools , swept off the cuttings , cleared off the bristles and ends , took the lamp , set it on the table , and took down the Gospels from the shelf .
He intended to open the book at the very place where he had yesterday put a piece of leather as a mark , but it happened to open at another place ; and the moment Avdyeitch opened the Testament , he recollected his last night 's dream .
And as soon as he remembered it , it seemed as if he heard someone stepping about behind him .
Avdyeitch looked around , and saw - there , in the dark corner , it seemed as if people were standing ; he was at a loss to know who they were .
And a voice whispered in his ear : - " Martuin - ah , Martuin !
did you not recognize me ? "
" Who ? "
exclaimed Avdyeitch .
" Me , " repeated the voice .
" It was I ; " and Stepanuitch stepped forth from the dark corner ; he smiled , and like a little cloud faded away , and soon vanished .
" And it was I , " said the voice .
From the dark corner stepped forth the woman with her child ; the woman smiled , the child laughed , and they also vanished , " And it was I , " continued the voice ; both the old woman and the boy with the apple stepped forward ; both smiled and vanished .
Avdyeitch 's soul rejoiced ; he crossed himself , put on his spectacles , and began to read the Evangelists where it happened to open .
On the upper part of the page he read : - " For I was an hungered , and ye gave me meat ; I was thirsty , and ye gave me drink ; I was a stranger , and ye took me in . "
And on the lower part of the page he read this : - " Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren , ye have done it unto me . "
- St. Matthew , Chap.xxv .
And Avdyeitch understood that his dream had not deceived him ; that the Saviour really called on him that day , and that he really received Him .
Jack 's blunder was disastrous , but what he worried about was : would Einstein have approved ?
Dear Mr. Gretch : Mrs. Burroughs and I are sending your son Jack to you because we do not know what else to do with him .
As you can see , we ca n't keep him with us in his present condition .
Also , Jack owes us two weeks rent and , since Mrs. Burroughs and I are retired , we would appreciate your sending the money .
It has been a dry year and our garden has done poorly .
The only reason we put up with your son in the first place was because we are so hard - pressed .
He saw the sign on the porch , rang the bell and paid Mrs. Burroughs a month 's rent without even looking at the room .
Then he ran out to his car and commenced pulling out suitcases and boxes and dragging them upstairs .
After the third trip , Mrs. Burroughs saw he was having trouble with the stuff and he looked kind of worn out , so she offered to help .
He gave her a hard look , as she described it to me when I got home .
He said , " I do n't want anyone touching anything .
Please do n't interfere . "
" I did n't mean to interfere , " my wife told him .
" I only wanted to help . "
" I do n't want any help , " he said quietly , but with a wild look in his eye , and he staggered upstairs with the last of his baggage and locked the door .
When I got home , Mrs. Burroughs told me she thought I ought to take a look at the new boarder .
I went up , thinking we 'd have a little chat and straighten things out .
I could hear him inside , hammering on something .
He did n't hear my first knock or the second .
I got sore and nearly banged the door down , at which time he decided to open up .
I charged in , ready to fight a bear .
And there was this skinny red - headed son of yours glaring at me .
" That 's a lot of hammering you 're doing , son , " I said .
" That 's the only way I can get these boxes open , and do n't call me son . "
" I do n't like to disturb you , Mr. Gretch , but Mrs. Burroughs is a little upset over the way you acted today .
I think you ought to come down for a cup of tea and get acquainted . "
" I know I was rude , " he said , looking a little ashamed , " but I have waited for years for a chance to get to work on my own , with no interference .
I 'll come down tomorrow , when I have got my equipment set up , and apologize to Mrs. Burroughs then . "
I asked him what he was working on , but he said he would explain later .
Before I got out of the door , he was hammering again .
He worked till after midnight .
We saw Jack at mealtimes for the next few days , but he did n't talk much .
We learned that he was twenty - six , in spite of his looking like a boy in his teens , that he thought Prof. Einstein the greatest man ever , and that he disliked being called son .
Of his experiment , he did n't have much to say then .
He saw Mrs. Burroughs was a little nervous about his experimenting in the guest room and he assured her it was not dangerous .
Before the week was out , we started hearing the noises .
The first one was like a wire brush going around a barrel .
It went whisk , whisk .
Then he rigged up something that went skaboom every few seconds , like a loud heartbeat .
Once in a while , he got in a sound like a creaky well pump , but mostly it was skaboom and whisk , which eventually settled down to a steady rhythm , whiskaboom , whiskaboom .
It was kind of pleasant .
Neither of us saw him for two days .
The noises kept going on .
Mrs. Burroughs was alarmed because he did not answer her knock at mealtimes , and one morning she charged upstairs and hollered at him through the door .
" You stop your nonsense this minute and come down to breakfast ! "
" I 'm not hungry , " he called back .
" You open this door ! "
she ordered and , by George , he did .
" Your whiskaboom or whatever it is will keep till after breakfast . "
He sat at the table , but he was a tired boy .
He had a cold , his eyelids kept batting , and I do n't believe he could have lifted his coffee cup .
He tried to look awake , and then over he went with his face in the oatmeal .
Mrs. Burroughs ran for the ammonia , but he was out cold , so we wiped the oatmeal off his face and carried him upstairs .
My wife rubbed Jack 's wrists with garlic and put wet towels on his face , and presently he came to .
He looked wildly about the room at his machinery .
It was all there , and strange - looking stuff , too .
" Please go away , " he begged .
" I 've got work to do . "
Mrs. Burroughs helped him blow his nose .
" There 'll be no work for you , sonny .
Not until you 're well .
We 'll take care of you . "
He did n't seem to mind being called sonny .
He was sick for a week and we tended him like one of our own .
We got to know him pretty well .
And we also got to know you .
Now , Mr. Gretch , whatever you are doing in your laboratory is your own business .
You could be making atomic disintegrators , for all Jack told us .
But he does not like or approve of it and he told us about your running battle with him to keep him working on your project instead of his own .
Jack tried to explain his ideas for harnessing time and what he called " the re - integration principle . "
It was all so much whiskaboom to us , so to speak , but he claimed it was for the good of mankind , which was fine with us .
But he said you would not let him work it out because there was less money in it than in your project , and this is why he had to get away and work and worry himself into a collapse .
When he got well , Mrs. Burroughs told him , " From now on , you 're going to have three meals a day and eight hours sleep , and in between you can play on your whiskaboom all you please . "
The whiskabooming became as familiar to us as our own voices .
Last Sunday , Mrs. Burroughs and I came home from church , about noon .
She went inside through the front door to fix dinner .
I walked around the house to look at the garden .
And the moment I walked past the front of the house , I got the shock of my life .
The house disappeared !
I was too surprised to stop walking , and a step later I was standing at the back of the house , and it was all there .
I took a step back and the whole house vanished again .
One more step and I was at the front .
It looked like a real house in front and in back , but there was n't any in - between .
It was like one of those false - front saloons on a movie lot , but thinner .
I thought of my wife , who had gone into the kitchen and , for all I knew , was as thin as the house , and I went charging in the back door , yelling .
" Are you all right ? "
" Of course I 'm all right , " she said .
" What 's the matter with you ? "
I grabbed her and she was all there , thank heavens .
She giggled and called me an old fool , but I dragged her outside and showed her what had happened to our house .
She saw it , too , so I knew I did n't have sunstroke , but she could n't understand it any better than I.
Right about then , I detected a prominent absence of whiskabooming .
" Jack ! "
I hollered , and we hurried back into the house and upstairs .
Well , Mr. Gretch , it was so pitiful , I ca n't describe it .
He was there , but I never saw a more miserable human being .
He was not only thin but also flat , like a cartoon of a man who had been steamrollered .
He was lying on the bed , holding onto the covers , with no more substance to him than a thin piece of paper .
Less .
Mrs. Burroughs took one of his shoulders between her thumb and forefinger , and I took the other , and we held him up .
There was a breeze coming through the window and Jack - well , he waved in the breeze .
We closed the window and laid him down again and he tried to explain what had happened .
" Professor Einstein would n't have liked this ! "
he moaned .
" Something went wrong , " he cried , shuddering .
He went on gasping and mumbling , and we gathered that he had hooked up a circuit the wrong way .
" I did n't harness the fourth - I chopped off the third dimension !
Einstein would n't have approved ! "
He was relieved to learn that the damage had been confined to himself and the house , so far as we knew .
Like the house , Jack had insides , but we do n't know where they are .
We poured tea down him , and he can eat , after a fashion , but there never is a sign of a lump anywhere .
That night , we pinned him to the bed with clothespins so he would n't blow off the bed .
Next morning , we rigged a line and pinned him to it so he could sit up .
" I know what to do , " he said , " but I would have to go back to the lab .
Dad would have to let me have his staff and all sorts of equipment .
And he wo n't do it . "
" If he thinks more of his money than he does of his own son , " Mrs. Burroughs said , " then he 's an unnatural father . "
But Jack made us promise not to get in touch with you .
Still , people are beginning to talk .
The man from the electric company could n't find the meter yesterday , because it is attached to the middle of the outside wall and has vanished .
Mr. Gretch , we are parents and we feel that you will not hesitate a moment to do whatever is necessary to get Jack back into shape .
So , despite our promise , we are sending Jack to you by registered parcel post , air mail .
He does n't mind the cardboard mailing tube he is rolled up in as he has been sleeping in it , finding it more comfortable than being pinned to the sheets .
Jack is a fine boy , sir , and we hope to hear soon that he is back to normal and doing the work he wants to do .
Very truly yours , W. Burroughs P.S.
When Jack figures out the re - integration principle , we would appreciate his fixing our house .
We get along as usual , but it makes us nervous to live in a house that , strictly speaking , has no insides .