" Tip - top drip - drop , " I sing with the rain , jumping over puddles on my way home from school .
The crinkly metal sheets covering the houses in our village sing along : " Tip - tip - drop drip - drip - top . "
I love the rain !
But sometimes I completely disapprove of it .
It 's not as bad as beetroot , but I get annoyed when the sky ca n't decide if it 's happy or sad .
" Again ? "
I complain to the clouds .
Again , the clouds send down a neverending river of droplets .
Dada says our family has lived in this village , Feizung , since the grandparents of the great - grandparents of the greatgreat - grandparents of our great - great - greatgrandparents !
That is more than three hundred years .
We make scarves and shawls , each one special .
But I love most the shawls that Dada makes .
They are so big and soft — I sleep with one of his shawls curled under my arms .
Amma weaves words instead of threads .
She is the most theatrical storyteller in the whole village — unlike Abbu , who tells stories at the pace of an old tortoise .
Our village is surrounded by rice fields — lush , green and vast — with homes made of bamboo scattered like stars in the sky .
Our country is big , but we are not allowed everywhere .
Amma says we can only go to places where people look like us .
Luckily , the village has everything I need — my family , my friends , and fields to play in .
The only thing we lack is a doctor .
Which is why , when I begin sneezing more times than a train choo - choos , Amma takes me to a doctor in the village two hours away .
As we prepare to leave the clinic , I hear the masjid 's loudspeaker .
But instead of singing , the imam is shouting .
" Run west .
Everyone , run west .
Run with what you have in hand .
Do n't go home .
There is no time .
Armed men are coming towards us and burning everything they pass .
We are afraid they may kill anyone who crosses their path .
Run west .
Run ! "
The imam sounds terrified .
All I have in my hand is Amma 's hand and all I can do is to hold it tight .
Everyone else is holding something or carrying someone .
And so , we run .
We run west , with hundreds of other people .
Just like many droplets create a river , we form a river flowing west .
Each droplet is a person walking , running , stumbling .
This neverending river crosses rice fields , orchards , forests and hills .
New droplets join .
Many are lost along the way .
But the droplets I want most — Abbu , Dada , Mami , the rest of our family — never join the river .
The people - river crosses what Amma says is a border .
She says we are in a new country now .
But everything looks the same .
Do rivers know they have crossed borders ?
Do they even know what borders are ?
We are in an open , and barren field .
On one horizon , rice fields fade into where our home was .
On the other horizon , a town fades into the ocean .
The empty field slowly fills up with tents and huts .
Food is not grown here .
People give it to us .
Water does not come from wells .
It arrives in trucks .
Amma says we are safe here .
But what about Abbu , Dada and Mami ?
Are they safe ?
I look and look all around me .
Safety seems to have become an open field inside an invisible bubble .
Here , we are all living in the hope of going home , some day .
Is it even possible to feel safe without a home ?
Safe , without my family and friends ?
I often wonder , where is home ?
Is it here ?
Or is it where my family is ?
Can home be in two places ?
A part of my heart will always be in Feizung .
But is it still home if we never go back to it ?
School starts .
Two years pass .
Abbu , Dada , Mami and everyone I love never come .
Amma and I are still here .
We are told we can not leave this camp .
But everyone also keeps saying we ca n't stay forever .
On one side there is still the road to Feizung .
On the other , the ocean .
Sometimes we think of escaping .
But today , I have school .
" Hasina , did you cover the books in plastic ? "
Amma shouts as I hurry off to school in the rain .
" Yes , Amma , I did , " I yell back , trying to be louder than the crinkly plastic sheets that sing , " Tip - tip - drop drip - drip - top . "